Hey everybody.
Uh, welcome to the session.
We're gonna wait like two minutes just to make sure
that everybody is here, um,
before we get started.
So let's just settle in for another one or two minutes
and then we will
discuss natural language processing part three.
Great. Uh,
we got a pretty packed agenda, so let's get started.
Um, let's see if we're good. Yep.
Uh, pen is working. Let's get moving.
Uh, so natural language processing part three.
So we first had, uh, natural language processing one
and then two, and then now we are in three.
My name is Ben Hanks.
I will be your mc slash teacher, uh, for the morning,
afternoon, evening, depending on
where you are currently located.
And I am a data
and applied scientist at, uh, Microsoft,
currently sitting in Seattle, Washington.
Um, probably about 20,
30 minutes drive away from the headquarters.
Uh, I work from home in my little shed here.
Um, and I really like working there. Um, it's been fun.
Uh, the same title would at different companies potentially
be people, science analyst, uh, pe, um,
data analyst, data scientist, like that kind of realm.
Um, but Microsoft's interpretation of this role is data
and applied scientist to, Uh,
I have my master's in data analytics
from Oregon State University.
It's from the College of Statistics
or within the College of Statistics.
So it's largely theoretical, um,
and a little bit applied.
Um, and my undergraduate degree is also from Oregon State
University and it's manufacturing
and industrial engineering, which is, uh,
building stuff and statistics.
Let's get to know each other a little bit.
Uh, so it's going to be me talking today
for about four hours.
Uh, so as much interactivity and back
and forth as we can get, especially in the chat, uh,
is gonna be super helpful for making a good engaging class.
So let's start that right now at the start of the class.
Um, so drop into the chat.
Your name, your role, your company,
like rough area where you're based.
Thanks, Vasan already.
Uh, dropping into the chat, some from California.
Uh, GM software engineer from Texas.
Another Ben, a wonderful name.
I've been to Austin a couple of times.
Um, great cycling around there.
Um, someone from Lima, a data engineer or San Francisco.
Um,
how is an EM in San Francisco?
And then while responses come in, uh,
just a fun fact about me.
Um, I ride my bike a lot after this lecture.
I'm going on a mountain bike ride.
Um, and bikes are a great way to
get exercise and have an
interesting hobby all at the same time.
Oh, if a sun rides a road bike. Awesome.
Uh, behind me in the blur, you can see my track bike.
I've had a couple of tracks as well.
Um, actually in a race, I broke, uh, the frame
with my kneecap once, uh, crashed
and smashed the frame with my knee.
I was surprisingly fine.
Uh, all right, let's talk data science.
Uh, so like I said before, um, I am here for you.
I am here to discuss things with you all.
This is a class, um,
that you are supposed to get value out of.
So don't be shy. There are no stupid questions.
Um, we are here to learn.
If you already knew the topic, you would not be here.
So feel free to ask any question, no matter
how potentially embarrassed you may be.
Um, I will be happy when we get any question.
Um, so don't be shy to speak up.
We do have a TA support today, uh,
and they will be active in the chat to help answer questions
that I'm too distracted to get to.
Um, we're gonna be doing a review session on
Thursday for assignments.
And then, um, there is a career, uh, review session
and like collaboration session on Wednesday,
uh, Pacific time.
I think we're, a lot of us are on Pacific.
Um, and yeah, just let me know if we want to recover
or review a subject, um, on any of these slides.
All right. So just a quick review
where we are in the natural language
processing, uh, framework.
We are here, natural language processing three.
We are almost done.
We are here today at the end
of this session, we will end here.
So I am stoked to get to the, the end of this vector.
Um, so natural language processing one, that's
where we talked about text, pre-processing, uh,
exploratory data analysis using some libraries,
sentiment analysis, image captioning.
That was really cool. Um,
natural language processing part two.
Uh, we discussed a little bit
of like sequence to sequence modeling.
We're gonna touch on that again today.
Um, and then transformers, part one.
Um, today we are going to talk about transformers,
part two, revenge of the fallen.
Uh, and then Bert, uh, which is a really cool algorithm,
um, that we will, uh,
focus on a little bit towards the end of the class.
Like I said before, sequence sequence models.
Uh, we discussed some well-known archetypes architectures,
um, and we leverage some nns for current neural networks
to drive the sequence encoder context, vector decoder output
sequence, um, pipeline.
And then in this class, we're gonna be using transformers
to fix some of the shortcomings that we had in, uh,
the previous more vanilla algorithms.
So we are here.
Um, we're going to start with, uh, the recap,
which we already discussed a little bit.
Then we're gonna discuss some transformers, um,
transformer components, dive a little bit
deeper into transformers.
Then, um, we're gonna take a little bit of a break.
I'll try and do two to three breaks
that are around five or 10 minutes.
Um, we do have a lot of content to cover today,
so I will try and balance, uh, how terrible the test
of endurance is with, uh,
how well we are doing progressing through the class.
Um, and then
after the first section, we're going to discuss Bert,
Roberta, uh, a couple of other Bert algorithms
and Burt adjacent algorithms.
Um, and then we're gonna do some code demos.
All right, let's get into transformers.
So problems with what we've learned so far, we've had kind
of the traditional setup of, um, the sequence
to sequence pipeline.
So s two s sequence, two sequence.
We have the input, um, and then we have our encoder,
and then we have our context vector.
Um, and then that is decoded.
And then we have an output of a sequence.
So we have sequence in and then sequence out.
Um, also feel free to drop in the chat.
If, uh, you cannot read my writing, I will try harder.
Um, so the biggest issue with this methodology is
that everything needs to fit in this context vector.
Uh, so like, let's say we have a huge text, like pages
of a book, like an entire Iliad or something like that.
Um, that means that everything needs
to fit into this context vector and then be translated.
Um, and then like if we pass on the vector
after that, I believe in Santa very short vector, um,
then we, um, are not adaptable in size.
So that sequence could take, um, a significant amount of
extra storage space, so it's not quite as efficient.
Um, also decoders decode one token at a
time sequentially.
And in this presentation,
we're gonna be talking a lot about parallel work, um, which
makes the process much more efficient.
So especially in large strings of text, which we're, um,
gonna be doing a lot,
and this extra power we get through parallel, um,
work really helps us, uh, in more
robust corpuses lots and lots and lots of texts.
So
what is a transformer?
So long story short on transformers is we take a text
sequence as an input
and we produce another text sequence as an output.
So we transform, a classic example is input
in a specific language
and then output in a different language.
So like Google translating, um,
tra uh, encoding that,
and then decoding it as, I am a student,
this is French, or I am a student.
And this is English for the same concept.
So structurally, transformers consists
of two main concepts, the encoder here,
and the encoder processes
and embeds the input sequence information,
and the decoder here,
which generates the desired output while preserving the
context, which is very important.
And we'll get into and semantics.
So in language translation, encoder process, uh,
on the input language, embeds
that value into a context vector.
So you can see context vector right here.
And then the decoder uses the context vector
to generate the translation,
maintaining the original meaning and context.
And with these concepts in the next coming slides,
we're gonna explore how transformers paved the way
for advanced models like Bert,
and even a little bit chat, GBT,
which is the coolest model in the world right
now, debatably.
All right, so there's a lot
of stuff going on in this slide, don't worry.
We'll get through it together.
Um, so here's translation.
Translation is really, really complex.
And in modern day, it's almost, uh, a non-issue as long
as you have a computer by your side.
And that's because of natural language processing.
We have solved a lot of this problem.
Um, so one of the biggest problems in translation
is going to be things like word by word or ordering.
Um, so if we look here at the top,
can you help this sentence to, or can you help?
See, even I'm having a hard time looking at the order.
Can you help this sentence to translate?
That's if you take this sentence
and have direct translation,
because in English, we have one set of grammar rules
that's not the same in other languages.
So to make sense, we need to have
the AI algorithm use this methodology.
So that is a much more robust, more difficult
analysis, because this word needs
to move all the way over here.
We can't just translate it, um, straight as shown here.
So to address this, attention mechanisms were developed,
which allow models
to access all input sequence elements simultaneously,
and select words that are the most contextually relevant
at each time, at each step.
So right around 2017, the transformer architecture, uh,
took another step forward by introducing, uh,
concepts like self attention, which enabled it
to process words all in parallel.
Again, there's that parallel word, uh,
which bypassed the need for recurrent neural networks
and enhanced the scalability
and efficiency of natural language processing.
So with the foundation of
how attention mechanisms enhance sequence modeling, uh,
we're gonna move on to explore the ins
and outs of more advanced models
and ensure that we understand the building blocks
that make them very, very effective in modern day.
Um, again, feel free to ask as many questions as you can.
Um, let's get stoked on natural language processing.
All right, let's talk about transformers.
Um, so first we're gonna kind
of talk about the training phase of the transformers.
Um, and then we're going to, uh, potentially make inference
and, uh, prediction, uh, through
these next few slides.
So, unpacking transformer training, uh, let's demystify
how transformers operate during their training phase,
where models learn to make accurate predictions
by adjusting its parameters based on the input
and the target output.
So here you can see the transformer.
Let me switch to a highlighter, so it's a little bit easier
to see the background.
So this here is the process.
The input text is, you are welcome right here.
Oh my gosh, that's terrible. Highlighting. You are welcome.
And then if we follow this pipeline,
we enter the encoder phase, part one,
and then we have a context factor out.
Uh, and then here is an exciting concept.
We can encoder it again to improve, um,
the model accuracy.
We'll talk about that in the next few slides.
Just we can do it for now.
Uh, and then we continue training, have the encoder out,
and then we go through some decoder processes, um,
and then have the very simple output of donata
at the end of all these processes.
So just voicing that a little bit in more detail.
Um, initially the input sequence undergoes
several transformations.
It's tokenized into smaller units, uh, such
as words and sub words and things like that.
Uh, one hot vectors, so that it's computable
and that it's supplemented with potential embeddings
to preserve the order of the words
and the context which they're in.
Um, and then as we go through the encoders, um,
the process input navigates through lots
of different layers, sometimes as many
as six encoding layers, um, where each layer works
to refine, refine, refine each time it goes
through another encoder.
Uh, and then looking at attention vectors,
which we'll discuss a little bit more coming out,
this is kind of the 30,000 foot view.
Um, once we reach the final encoder,
we obtain the attention vector.
This vector has a ton of contextual information
for each token in the input sequence.
And that is gonna be pivotal in generating the output, uh,
subsequence and the decoding phase.
During the decoding phase, uh,
that attention vector is utilized within the decoder, uh,
to produce the desired output sequence, which ensures
that it is contextually
and semantically aligned with the input.
And as we transition into discussing, uh, the encoding phase
and then the decoding phase
after that, uh, just to remember that this attention vector
and context vectors, they both play crucial roles in, uh,
bridging that encoded output with the decoded output.
So during this first part of the presentation,
we're gonna have encoder, which is the start,
and that encodes the input.
And then we're going to have decoder at the end,
and that decodes the input.
And then after that, we've got the outputs.
So again, at a top level, um,
we can look at the decoder phase right over here
with trending of the transformers.
Um, unlike traditional methods, the entire target sequence
is gonna be fed into the decoder, which is a technique kind
of like teacher forcing.
So teacher forcing allows all output tokens
to be predicted in a single step, which is really cool.
Um, the processed target sequence is gonna be passed
through several decoder layers,
just like we had with encoder.
This could be repeated many times,
um, and the output is going to be the most
accurate embedding possible.
Ultimately, the decoder outputs a sequence that corresponds
to the tokens with the highest probability
of being the accurate Next word, crafting a coherent,
contextually relevant output sequence.
How? That's a great question.
Uh, looking at how teacher forcing is done
through the next few steps.
Um, we will be getting to
that a little bit in the next couple of slides.
All right, looking at the inference phase.
So the only difference between the training
and the inference phase target sequence
is fed sequentially to the decoder part of the prediction.
Um, and we don't have access to those future tokens.
Um, so let's explore what occurs during
that inference phase, which is when the trained model
is deployed to make predictions on unseen data.
Um, different differentiating the training
and the inference here.
Um, training
and inference phrases might seem pretty similar,
but the fundamental distinction is during inference,
we lack access to the actual target sequence.
So predictions have to be made sequentially
as opposed to in parallel.
Um, unlike in the training phase,
the entire sequence is available, the entire target sequence
and can be fed into the decoder.
Um, and during inference,
the target sequence is input into the
decoder token by token.
And predictions are made in a stepwise manner
as opposed to parallel.
Um, the token by token sequence, uh, can have
implications on the output quality
and consistency, uh, given
that the model does not have future context to rely on.
And, uh, we have
to make the best prediction possible based on the
current and past tokens.
And with a grasp on
what differentiates the input, the inference phase.
Uh, let's get a little bit deeper into further aspects
of transformer models
and kind of explore, uh, how they're adapted
and fine tuned for specific natural language processing, um,
tasks in the upcoming discussion.
Great questions so far.
Uh, thank you, uh, to the TA for answering those quickly.
Um, oh,
and it looks like we've got already an answer on the, uh,
teacher forcing function.
Thank you. Keep the questions coming.
Um, best way to learn.
So some advantages, some advantages of transformers.
Like I was saying, um, parallel processing really improves
the speed of the models.
And while sometimes we can run those, uh, models
and algorithms in the backend,
and speed is not a huge concern, um, what makes
parallel processing and speed important is
because we can do larger tasks.
So in prior days
before all this parallel processing
and increased, uh, computing power
and speed, um, we would try and do these big tasks
and fit models on, you know, billions of records,
and it would just not work.
Even if we gave it a billion hours of time,
it would just have overflow errors and things like that.
Um, so now with all these improved parallel, uh,
methodologies and cloud computing
and things like that, we can solve these problems that
before would just error out
and just, uh, have overload issues.
So that, um, while it may not seem super critical,
is a huge importance.
Um, and then another thing is having effective handling
of long-term dependencies.
Um, increased model capacity, which is really related
to this step as well, um, or advantage.
And then the flexibility, uh, with variable length
and sequence, um, again,
really compresses our models and things like that.
Right, let's keep rolling. Uh, so some limitations.
Um, we're still gonna get pretty high computational costs,
so we're just kind of doing a ton of stuff.
Um, and with transformers,
while we have severely improved our computational expense,
it's still going to be a lot of stuff.
Um, there is some inefficiency.
Um, we're always with AI going to be, have to, uh, going
to have to consider overfitting, uh,
transformers is especially, uh, non robust to that.
And then hyper parameterization tuning
and, uh, performance optimization is something
that is really going to improve our models.
All right, so that is most of the transformer section.
We're gonna be talking about it more in the coming slides.
Um, but that's most of the education on transformers.
Um, now that we have that complete checked off,
uh, let's talk more about in more detail encoders
and decoders.
So we're going to start this conversation
by looking at incoders.
Here's, remember
before when we were talking about how we have encoder one,
encoder two, and coer three
and coer four, et cetera, et cetera.
Uh, so here's that in a little bit more detail.
Um, this could be encoder one, this could be encoder two,
this could be encoder three, this could be encoder four,
and we can repeat this whole block.
We can repeat each one of these processing steps
as many times as we want for additional model accuracy.
Um, so let's talk about it at kind
of a high level overview first.
Um, so we're gonna talk about encoder layer unveiling
Within every encoder, there's three primary layers,
all interconnected with residual connections
to avoid vanishing or exploding gradient or other issues.
Uh, first the self attention layer,
which we're gonna talk about first allows the model
to focus on different words for a given input.
Next, the layer normalization, commonly known as layer,
norm, uh, stabilizes activations of the neurons.
And finally, the feed forward neural network, uh,
performs specific transformations of the activation layers.
We're gonna be focusing mostly on the self
attention and layer norm.
Um, and then feed forward will be in a couple of examples,
but we're not gonna touch on that explicitly.
Um, and then after
that we're gonna talk about decoder layers,
which is this half over here, right before the output.
Um, it has some similar things going on.
Uh, you'll recognize a few words like layer, norm, uh,
and self attention and feed forward.
This is different though, encoder decoder attention.
We are gonna talk about that at length.
Um, but just in general,
that additional layer helps the coder focus on the relevant
parts of the input sentence, ensuring
that the output is contextually
and semantically aligned with the input.
Um, and then exploring residual connection.
Briefly, it's worth noting that the inclusion
of residual connections within these
layers is really important.
Um, these connections allow the gradients to flow
through the network more easily by bypassing certain layers,
and that aids in training deeper, more robust models.
And as we step into the intricacies of each
of these layers in subsequent slides, just remember
that the strategic construction of these layers is
what empowers transformer models, uh,
to effectively manage sequential data
in natural language processing.
Alright, embeddings.
So, um, before we get into the, um,
encoders, uh, let's talk about embeddings, which is usually,
uh, the entry point.
So when we wanna start using the transformer models,
we create these embeddings, these word embeddings.
Um, it allows the computer and the models to understand
and process natural language data.
These embeddings are achieved
through algorithms like we talked about in NLP one, NLP two,
uh, like word vec and glove.
Uh, and these transformed each word into a high dimensional
space where semantic similarities between words correlate
with spatial proximity.
The key in this is converting linguistic information
into a format that's computable,
while maintaining semantic relationships.
Um, and focusing on the bottommost encoder,
we're gonna be looking at this embedding process happening
only in the bottommost encoder.
Uh, so despite all encoders sharing a common structural
design, it's this initial encoder
that ingests the original output
and translates their words into vector representations.
And then another thing is gonna be uniformity
across encoder blocks.
Uh, every single encoder is going to receive a list
of vectors, each of size, n uh,
representing the input words.
So that n is gonna be flexible depending on the input words.
Um, so that uniformity or max input words I should say.
Um, and then the overall uniformity is where each
encoder block processes the input and the shape
and the type, and that allows the model to be scalable
and manage various que uh,
sequence lengths and complexities.
We're gonna talk a little bit about pads, um,
and how that helps with, uh, managing sequence.
Um, and going forward, just think about how embedding
and initial encoding lay the foundation for processing steps
in the transformer models that we're gonna be talking about.
Okay, so today we are talking about transformers,
and transformers have encoder steps
and decoder steps.
Before we get to encoders,
we have the embedding, and that is the input to the encoder.
And then the output, uh, is going to go through lots
of decoder phases, and then we're gonna get some theoretical
output that might be a translated sentence
or something like that at the end.
So that's kind of like contextualizing
where we're currently at in the lecture.
All right, next slide.
Positional encoding.
Uh, so let's talk about
a little bit about positional encoding an important step
that helps us kind of model
and understand where each word is in a sentence.
Um, like we saw in the previous slide with, uh,
the language translations, it's gonna be really key
to remember just the context of the word,
not necessarily the order
or sorry, and the order as well.
Um, so the cat chases the dog, for example,
means something very different, opposite, in fact,
than the dog chases the cat.
So we need to use this positional encoding to make sure
that the model is aware of word order,
otherwise there's gonna be he hallucination in word salad,
and, uh, issues like that.
So positional encoding involves adding special vectors
that you can see here, these vectors, um,
or lists of numbers to the word embeddings.
So we start with these word embeddings,
and then we add the positional encoding here.
And then this gives us a more accurate contextual vector
that has positions and the word embedding.
Um, and adding that allows our models
to get extra help, understanding word order
and creating outputs
that make sense in a natural language processing algorithm.
Um, and in
the next few slides, we're gonna be moving on
and talking about how transformer models use this
positional encoding to make models handle this
language in specific ways.
All right, so there is some math on this slide.
We're not going to do any proofs today.
We are just going to talk about it very briefly.
And the important thing to remember is
this is kind of how it works here.
So we have this positional encoding, um,
and we have the position here.
Here's the input, uh, text we have, hello,
my five word sequence.
And then we just use sign
and cosign as a simple coding function, uh, to have, uh,
positional on coatings.
So sign is going to be all of the even cells.
So like even cells, we start at zero.
'cause this is based in code.
Uh, so this is going to be sign.
So this is gonna be even, even even.
And then co-sign is going to be all of the odd cells.
So we have co-sign, co-sign,
and then that allows us a little bit
of mathematical mapping.
Uh, looks like there's some questions coming in.
Thank you to the TA for answering those.
Um, and this is mostly on this slide, just kind
of a peak at the math, um, of positional embedding.
So let's keep rolling.
Alright, looking at the input for transformers.
Um, diving in a little bit deeper in our transformer models,
the input is actually a three dimensional structure here,
and we can describe it like B,
L, and E, where B is the batch size,
and that's the number of samples in the batch.
Bigger batch sizes mean we're giving the data more data at,
or model more data at once.
So that's gonna be computational load,
but also additional context.
Uh, pros and cons there.
Sequence length is l number
of words slash token in a sequence.
Uh, so like if I is 10, uh,
then our sample batch has 10 words, for example.
Um, e is embedding size.
So this is how long our embedding vector is
for each word or token.
So like, if e is 300 word
or 300, that means that each word is represented by a list
of 300 numbers.
And looking at it overall, our output is A 3D structure
of B, L, and E where we define
how many samples we put into the input.
B, how many words are in each sample L
and how many numbers are used to represent each word.
E. And understanding these input dimensions is gonna be key
as we move forward
and explore how these inputs are
processed by the transformer.
Uh, what is B, l and E in the figure?
So looking at this figure, uh, let's see,
we've got B as batch size.
Uh, so number of samples in that batch.
So that's going to be this five here.
Um, so that is going to be the length.
And then four is the number of tokens in a sequence.
So that's gonna be l that's going to be, sorry, let me
do a different color there.
So this is gonna be l that's gonna be the width,
and then e is going to be the embedding size.
So that's gonna be three, and that's gonna be the depth.
How does that answer your
question?
Uh, answer live. All right. Cool.
Great question so far.
All right, here we go. We have all of the context we need.
Uh, let us zoom in and talk about ENC coders.
So you'll recognize this slide.
This we've given context to, uh, embeddings.
We've given context to positional embeddings.
We've given context to, we are now here specifically,
we are here.
Self attention is what we're gonna be talking about next.
So, self attention is a mechanism
that allows neural networks to weigh the importance
of differing elements in a sequence relative to each other.
It's been particularly influential, influential in NLP,
and it's a key component of transformers in general,
specifically the encoders that we're talking about now.
Um, attention mechanisms.
Mechanisms were initially developed to kind
of like mimic the human ability to focus on a specific part
of a scene or a sequence when processing
information, which is pretty cool.
Um, in the context of neural networks,
attention mechanisms enable models
to selectively focus on different parts
of the input sequence When making predictions, uh,
specifically the self detention mechanism, um,
allows a model to consider the relationships
between different elements within the same sequence.
In the context of NLP, these elements are usually words
or tokens in a sequence.
And the key idea here is that each element can attend
to all other elements in a sequence including itself,
kinda like a correlation matrix, similar to
what you're gonna see in the next couple slides
and some benefits, uh,
we can capture long range dependencies.
Things like RNs struggle
with capturing long range dependencies.
Um, self attention on the other hand, allows the model
to consider all elements in a sequence simultaneously.
So it's gonna be really helpful for those translation
and, uh, switching those words around, uh,
helping handle that.
Uh, and that makes it a lot more effective for tasks
that require understanding,
like the global concept or context.
Uh, paralyzation, like I was saying before, very important.
Um, and self attention methodology is very, um,
plays well with paralyzation, uh,
and that allows for more efficient processing of sequences.
Um, this is in contrast to recurrent neural networks, uh,
which are usually very, very sequential.
All right, here's the first practical example.
Um, so self attention is often commonly referred to
as intra attention.
I think self attention makes a little bit more sense when
you're communicating it personally.
Uh, so here we've got a couple of sentences.
Um, the monkey ate that banana
because it was hungry to,
and what we're going to ask here is, um,
what is it referring to?
Is it the banana or is it the monkey?
And enriching the context of each token
will really improve our results,
and that is a, a visual demonstration of
the use of self attention.
And here's another one. Um, so we're looking at
the cat here, and
we have two examples.
The cat drank the milk because it was hungry.
This is pretty clearly talking about the cat.
Uh, the cat drank the milk because it was sweet.
Very similar sentence structure,
but it is referencing the milk, not the cat.
So how do we get the model to determine which one is which
and where it's representing.
Um, another example would be like in job title,
natural language processing, um,
and job title, natural language processing.
You can consider a picker working
for Amazon would have a very different job
than a picker working for, um, a farming company.
Um, so that is going to be, um,
very different depending on context,
and we can understand theoretically.
Um, but in the next couple of slides, we're going
to be looking at it mathematically.
So calculating self attention involves lots
of different steps, and it's commonly used within
the context of the transformer architecture
like we're talking about now.
Um, the main
organizing concepts are going to be the key, uh, query
and value vectors.
So here we have query vectors.
Here we have key vectors, and here we have value vectors.
Um, all of these vectors are going to be,
the embedding vectors are gonna be created
by taking the dot product of the embedding of each word,
um, that we learned during the training process
that the model learned during the training process.
Um, and for each element,
they're derived from the original input embeddings.
So the attention score between the query vector
and a key vector is calculated using that dot product
for each element I in the attention score,
uh, scaling the attention scores
to prevent the gradients from becoming too small
during the training, the attention scores are usually scaled
by the square root of the dimension of the key vectors.
So that's gonna be kind of like a moderating denominator
that we're gonna look at in a little bit.
Um, we're also gonna be using the soft max activation, um,
to, uh, normalize the weights even further.
And that ensures that the attention weights will sum to one,
uh, for each element in the sequence, which, you know,
probabilistically probabilistically something to one, um,
is going to be important as well.
So we ensure we have an output each time, um,
weighting the sum of, of each of the values.
The final step of this process involves taking a weighted
sum of each of these value vectors,
using the calculated attention weights.
Uh, and that results in context vector
for each element is a combination of all of those values
and all those elements,
and all of those steps are performed independently
for each element in the sequence.
And that results in a whole new set of context vectors, uh,
the process allows the model to attend different parts, uh,
for each sequence in the element,
and that captures the context
information really effectively.
Uh, lemme pull up the qa.
Um, it's important to note that the context
of the transformer architecture, um,
these computations are typically implemented using
operations for efficiency during training and interference.
Uh, the self attention mechanism contributes
to this model ability to capture dependencies
and relationships in the input sequence.
Um, got some shout outs from Benjamin. Uh, thank you.
I'm assuming we're talking about the TA
and, um, appreciate the, uh,
stoke on the class.
Um, all right, diving a little bit deeper into
self attention, I know this is scary, don't worry.
I'm gonna go through it with you.
We'll get through it together.
Um, so starting with our words,
and for each one we're gonna calculate three things.
We're gonna calculate query, which is the query,
uh, process here.
Uh, and then we're gonna calculate key vector,
then we're gonna calculate, uh, the value vector.
And with those powers combined,
we're gonna get a strong output vector.
Um, so getting it step by step,
we need to figure out
how much each word should pay attention to every other word.
Uh, remember that correlation vector,
or sorry, correlation matrix concept.
Um, this is our attention score,
and that's kind of like a measure between the similarity
of each words, between each words.
And it's calculated using, um, this soft max formula here,
Z is getting red.
Um, here we're gonna be dividing by the square root of dk,
and that is gonna be that moderating influence that I was,
uh, discussing previously.
Um, and the size of our key vectors is going to, um,
keep our numbers nice and stable.
Um, what happens is we will turn these weights
or turn these scores into weights using
the soft max function.
Um, this makes sure that all the weights
of each word add up to one.
So all of this Z is going to add up to one.
Um, and then that's pretty much it.
So this single vector made up from mixing all
of the sub vectors here, uh, gets passed down
to the next layer of the model.
And then we repeat the process over and over and over again.
And it may sound tricky,
but all we're doing here is helping the model figure out
what to focus on when it sees a bunch of words.
Think of it as helping the model know which words
are best buddies and need to stick together to make sense.
Great questions coming in.
Thank you to the TA for answering. All
right, calculating the attention score here.
So now we're on the final step.
Remember, the scale attention scores are passed
through the soft max function
to obtain normalized attention weights.
This ensures that attention weights some to one
for each element in that sequence,
because remember, this is all probability based
and probability has to add to one.
Um, and the attention score here
is multiplying the dot product of the query
and the key matrix normalized by the square root
of the embedding vector here.
Um, so that's just normalizing so
that we can more easily process things.
We have this vector space,
and when we normalize it, um, it plays a lot nicer with,
um, the model.
So softmax function is used on the resulting matrix
for that final output.
And that's pretty much it.
Great work that is self attention encoding.
We're gonna touch on it again briefly when we, uh,
talk about decoding process,
but for now, let's get into layer
normalization, frequently known as later norm.
Um, so done, done.
Wait, this is done.
Uh, and then self attention. We just finished.
Good job, everybody. And now we're gonna talk about,
so layer normalization aims
to normalize the activations within a layer that helps us,
uh, con or that helps the model
converge faster during training.
Quick summary, um, normalization within a layer
normalizes the values within the layer of a neural network
that is applied independently, uh,
to each neuron activation in each layer.
So some learnable parameters here,
layer normalization introduces learnable parameters, uh,
which are gamma scale and beta shift.
Um, and that allows the model to adapt
and learn the optimal normalization for each neuron.
Um, some benefits of layer normalization.
Um, it's really good for stabilization training, uh,
helps stabilize the process by reducing covariate shift.
Covariant is varying together, um,
and making it easier for the model to converge, uh,
to an answer, reducing sensitivity and initialization.
Um, so it just makes it more robust to departures from, um,
uh, a central tendency.
Um, applications like where we would use this,
it's mostly used, um, it right, right
after the self attention mechanism.
Um, and it's sometimes applied just independently, uh,
to each position in a sequence which enhances the, uh,
our model's ability to handle varying scales and input data.
Uh, lots of times it's used in machine vision, um,
which is pretty cool.
It, so machine vision, we're just talking about pictures.
Um, and layer normalization allows us
to normalize the layers in the image.
So that does things like bring it to a standard format.
So starting with a full, full color image, think
of a big old giraffe picture.
Really pretty lots of, uh, yellows
and browns and, uh, Savannah.
Um, so that brings it, uh, the normalization of
that image allows the model to process it more easily.
So if we start with a big huge rectangle picture,
we might normalize it to a black
and white four by three, uh, picture.
And that allows the model to more easily, uh, represent it
or fit it represent is a less accurate word.
So diving a little bit deeper into layer normalization, um,
in this model, uh,
or in this cut of this model, uh, we're gonna talk about the
add and normalized layer.
It's often referred to as the residual connection followed
by the layer normalization.
Um, it also serves to stabilize the activations
and facilitate the training of deep networks.
Um, a couple of components we can add residual connection
and normalize the layer normalization.
Um, so we have this positional encoding,
um, that we have as an input.
And then here's the excellent positional coding vector.
We have pass through self attention,
which we all are super versed in right now.
Um, and then we have this additional vector
that we pass into layer normalization,
and now we are normalizing.
Um, so
during this process we're going to do that draft picture,
and then we cut into black
and white, which makes it a little bit easier.
And then from there we bring it into another step of, um,
making it to the same aspect ratio.
And that process we're gonna look at a little bit, uh,
later in the practice.
Um, and we're gonna be, uh,
doing some coding demos and things like that.
So, um, like we were saying
before, layer normalization stabilizes the activations in
the neural network and make sure
that they don't reach extremely high
or extremely low values.
Um, and it normalizes the output
of each feature across the dimension.
So it's another encoder layer, um, that
aids in the encoding of this process.
And there's a couple different types of layer normalization.
Uh, predominantly it's gonna be layer normalization
and batch normalization.
Um, so you can just think of it as batch x normalization,
layer y normalization.
So batch, we're gonna be looking at rows, row, row,
row, and then layer.
We're gonna be looking at columns column, column column.
Um, and there's pros and cons of both.
Uh, layer normalization has some advantages which
mitigates the risk of unstable training dynamics, uh,
by maintaining activations in a normalized range.
Uh, this partially alleviates the covariate shift problem,
which remember we were talking about before, before.
Um, and it keeps the distribution of the inputs
to a layer a little bit more stable during training.
Batch normalization becomes a little unstable
with small batches.
Um, and that's gonna be needed when the input batch
normalization are needed, when the inputs are large.
Um, and for example, in like segmentation
and detection tasks.
Um, so different normalization approaches mainly differ in
how, um, the average
and mean estimates for the, um, eq.
And that's the main layer versus batch normalization. So
that's kind of the top level overview
of encoders versus decoders.
So we've got the input process, and then
after that input process, we have the encoders,
the encoders self attention
and layer norm is what we talked about.
And that can iterate many, many, many times, as many times
as we need to get, uh, the most accurate model, um,
while preventing overfitting.
Um, and then after that process, that final context vector,
which is the output of the encoding process, we pass that
to the decoder, which we're gonna be talking about now.
Um, Vasan was asking,
can you explain more why there are two input machine
and thinking three slides before, um,
oh yeah, I see what you're talking about.
Um, so these are passing,
let's just go back to the slide quickly.
So this is reflecting how we can pass in parallel.
Um, so thinking
and machines are just, um, two different words that
we're passing through.
Um, so in this, uh, vector of interest,
we're going to be talking about thinking,
and we have the positional encoding for thinking.
And then we pass that word through the self attention
and then through layer norm,
and then all the way through the rest of the model.
And then we repeat that process, um,
and repeat is simplified.
Um, this happens in parallel machines is another word.
Um, and in parallel we pass that through self attention
and then layer norm, et cetera, et cetera.
And then we look at the relationship between those.
But great question. Sorry,
I should have clarified that earlier.
Um,
Let's keep moving.
We are on track. Good job, everybody.
Um, so we've got about 30 minutes to a break just to kind
of like prepare yourself, uh, getting into decoding.
Let's set shed some light on the decoder section
of the transformer model.
Even though it mirrors the encoder process in lots of ways,
there's a couple key distinctions that tailor it
to its specific role in the generation of translation tasks.
Um, so all of the stuff we talked about,
that kind of ends right here.
So the prior slides in the presentation are
all over here somewhere.
And now we're focused right here on the decoder.
So we have the input of the, um,
embedding the context vector, um,
and that goes into the decoder.
Um, so masking the input sequence, the decoder needs to,
uh, to handle data in a way
that prevents it from seeing future tokens in a sequence
during training, which is crucial to ensure
that it doesn't cheat the training process
by using information it shouldn't have access to
the masking technique, um, is used
to hide feature tokens.
What is masking? We will find out soon enough.
Uh, we've got some really interesting demos, um,
where we're gonna be talking about masking at a deep level.
Uh, but in general, it ensures that the prediction
for a word doesn't depend on the
subsequent words in the sequence.
Um, in practical terms, it's like making sure
that the model doesn't peek ahead
into the sentence when it's trying to predict the next word.
Um, and what the heck is this, right?
We didn't talk about this encoder decoder attention.
We know this. Uh, we know layer norm, uh,
we don't know encoder decoder attention.
Um, so while the encoder digests the input sequence,
the decoder ought to produce an output sequence that can be
of different lengths and is conditioned on
the encoder output.
And the deco encoder decoder attention layer
helps the decoder focus on relevant parts of the sequence
no matter what the length is.
Uh, in simpler terms, it allows each position in the decoder
to attend over all positions in the input sequence,
and that's captured in the encoders output.
This forms a kind of bridge, allowing the decoder
to consider information, um, from the input sequence
as it generates each word in the output.
So in top level summary,
while our decoder also has the self attention
and feed forward networks like the encoder process,
the two distinctive out aspects which are masking
and encoder decoder attention, uh, adapt it
for its role in generating coherent
and contextually relevant sequences,
taking into account both the proceeding words
and the encoder insights.
And as we get deeper into this presentation, uh,
just remember understanding each component in isolation will
help us appreciate how they work together
and make these models so powerful.
Hashtag better together.
Um, yeah, let's keep going.
All right, starting at the top, just like we did before.
Done, done, done. Same thing.
Done, done this whole process. Done. Good job, everybody.
We are now here, specifically
here, self attention.
A decoder is the component
or module playing a crucial role in this sequence
to sequence language model, like I was saying before.
Um, and in sequence to sequence tasks, attention mechanism,
decoders often incorporate this attention mechanism process
to selectively focus on different parts
of the input sequence when generating each
element of the output.
And this allows the model to capture long range dependencies
and improve the quality of generated sequences.
Alright, attention masks.
Um, we've established transformers,
like the model we're using right now,
use self attention mechanisms to weigh the importance
of different words in a sequence.
But here's the catch. How do we ensure
the model doesn't cheat
and look at words ahead of time that it shouldn't see?
During training in RNs, recurrent neural networks,
all we would do is have like a training set and a test set.
Um, here we have attention masks,
so we can kick off the sequence looking at special token
denoted as a starter token here at timestamp
zero, oh, let me change.
Here we go. So
at timestamp zero, when this training algorithm starts,
we use the starting token.
At timestamp one, we decide on the next token.
So during training, um, we know the actual
expected output, so we attach it to the input sequence.
For example, if our target phrase is,
you are welcome, the
input becomes start, which is you right there.
Um, but during prediction, we don't have the actual output,
which is, uh, generated by the model, uh,
P zero at timestamp zero.
And the output, um, when we mask will be one
of these selected mask words.
Um, at timestamp t where t is the end of the process,
um, we have these masks, um,
that the model then can guess to get the final output.
Uh, so a set of different words.
We've kind of established the sequence length
where the sequence is you are welcome.
Um, so that's sequence length is three,
but our actual content is T minus one.
'cause remember, we start at zero, um, tokens long at
that final timestamp.
So looking at future tokens from T to the final, um,
uh, to the final length of the vector, uh,
we do hide them using masking,
and that ensures that the model doesn't peak at future
tokens during the training process.
And then during the, uh, final prediction process,
that's when we, um, predict those masks.
And the next couple slides are gonna be really helpful
for looking at that process.
So in the self attention layer, you remember these
value key query very similar to what we had
before, value, key query and self attention.
Um, so the first layer of this self attention process, um,
we have, um, the decoder, which
computes its very own query key
and value vectors using the input it receives
with the objective of
allowing each token in the input sequence to consider others
establishing contextual relationships within
the sequence itself.
Uh, remember that correlation
matrix we were talking about before.
And then, um,
the next step is looking at the encoder
decoder attention layer.
The second type of attention is encoder decoder attention,
bridging that connection between the encoders, outputs,
encoders outputs,
and the decoders generation process.
The key in value vectors here
originate from the encoders final layer,
bringing them information from the input sequence.
And while this is happening, the query vector right here,
um, is sourced from the output
of the decoder self attention layer.
Um, and that contains insights from the partially generated
output sequence.
Um, so just to make an analogy,
to make things a little clearer,
imagine the encoder process here, um,
has read a nice book, the input sequence
and summarized it.
The self attention in the decoder
is like discussing the summary, the summary, um,
among various friends like a book club.
So here we're in the book club, um,
and looking at each word in the output sequence
to understand different perspectives.
The encoder decoder attention is in this analogy.
Um, it's continuous, continuously referring back
to the original book while discussing
and ensuring that the conversation stays relevant
and accurate to the source material.
So it's kinda like a referee in this process.
And the source material, again, is that input sequence.
So in a nutshell, self attention allows the decoder
to contextualize the tokens
within its own generated sequence.
And in parallel, the encoder decoder attention
allows this output to remain relevant to the input,
preserving the connection to the original message.
And remember how I said in parallel,
but then this isn't parallel.
This is sequential. And the reason for that is we have
to demonstrate this process, um, so that it's
as easy as possible to understand.
But each one of these processes
are happening in parallel at the same time to allow for,
uh, a more robust process
and, sorry, uh, faster.
All right. Remember how we talked about attention masks?
So this is just kind of a, a very low level demonstration of
what that attention masking process is.
Um, so if the expected output of this sentence
is re esan in Spanish, apologies for the pronunciation,
um, at times step or at timestamp zero only.
The first token is passed at this T zero here.
This is T zero right here.
Um, and for all the statisticians,
this does look quite a bit like a
correlation matrix, doesn't it?
Um, at the timestamp zero only, that first token is passed.
And that, looking at this visual here,
um, this is the first process.
And then at timestamp T one, this is T zero,
this is T one, T two, T three.
Um, so at t one sequence
with two tokens is pass the decoder,
and then three tokens, and then four tokens.
So remember, it's T minus one, T minus one, oh my gosh,
T minus one.
Um, and then in the next slide,
we'll talk about it a little bit further
in a little bit more detail.
Um, so that parallel concept,
using the attention masks with that encoder stage,
um, just like with the decoder,
the encoder also uses attention masks, ensuring
that self attention mechanism operates appropriately
recognizing and respecting the general structure, um,
and the intent of the input sequence.
So looking at like varied length sequence
and padding, remember we were talking about padding
before, um, real world scenarios.
Not all input sequences align to a uniform length.
So our model necessitates fixed size input, um,
and that's where we used padding.
Um, the way I think about it is, if you remember back to,
um, the, uh, calculus where we have the integral
and then we have like X squared,
and then we take the final integral, um,
and then we get plus constant, right?
Because we don't know what's after that.
So I think a padding kind of like this plus constant, um,
it just allows for extra space, um, for the,
um, context vector to be processed.
It's like a placeholder.
Um, so we do append that special pad tokens, um,
to shorter sequences to match them up, uh,
to a consistent length.
'cause that length has to be
consistent across the whole model.
Um, but the caveat is we don't want the model
to pay attention to those padding tokens
because they're not meaningful words, they're just spaces.
And with that, um, attention masks kind
of act like those guides
and they steer the model's focus towards the tokens
that carry actual value, um, and away from the pad tokens.
So here in this sentence we have, you are welcome.
And then, um, previously in the model we had, uh, a four,
a four word sentence.
So we have to now replace that with pad.
Uh, when we, uh, look at you are welcome vector.
Um, so this attention masks are going
to prioritize.
You are welcome and deprioritize pad.
Um, and it's kind of just telling us, Hey,
focus on these tokens and ignore the padding ones
because they're placeable, there's and not real.
Um, in mathematical simplicity,
the attention mask is often the binary sequence kind
of mirroring, mirroring the length of the input.
Um, and a signal, um, signals pay attention
to this token and zero it meaning ignore this one.
So these are all ones,
And these are all zeros.
We're gonna ignore all of these.
Um, so if we have a sentence like, I love NLP, uh,
where we assume NLP is one word I
and the padded sequence becomes, I love NLP
with a couple different pads.
Um, here where you have, I love NLP,
um, and then have the same level of pad.
Um, and that would have the same, uh,
ones and then all of the zeros in the pad areas.
Why is the attention mask three by three, uh, versus
stare in a previous one?
Oh, so it's similar to the, um, it's just simplified.
Um, so this, we have the pad, if you recall.
Um, so that pads out the whole vector.
And, uh, this also kind
of demonstrates the parallel processing as opposed
to the other, which was, um,
explained in a more sequential way.
So, good question.
Um, and just wrapping this up, attention masks
and padding together ensure that the
transformer model processes variable length sequences in a
constant manner and maintains focus on meaningful tokens
and, uh, disregarding the placeholders.
All right. Um, and next we're gonna get into, uh,
encoder decoder attention.
Um, I'm looking at the time,
let's take a quick, uh, 10 minute break.
So on Pacific time, we would get back at, uh, 10 31.
So all time zones would reflect 31 minutes
after, uh, and then reconvene
and yeah, uh, talk about encoder decoder retention.
So I'll see you back at now, 22 after, or sorry, 32
after it's 22 afternoon.
All right, everybody, let's get back,
get started, um, on
encoder decoder attention.
And feel free to, uh, drop questions into the question
and answer section as
we process all
of the incoming information that we're getting.
So we talked about it briefly,
but diving a little bit deeper
into the internal architecture
of the encoder decoder relationship.
Um, each of those plays a pivotal
role in the functionality of transformers and guides.
The model through, uh,
the distinct processing steps that we're gonna have.
Um, with every encoder there exists,
those three primary layers that we've discussed about, uh,
the self attention layer, the layer normalization, um,
and then those repeated, uh, feed forward as well.
Um, getting into those decoder layers we've already
discussed, um, just as review,
we've still got the layer norm,
we've still got the feed forward.
Um, encoder decoder tension, which is new.
Um, and then self attention.
Let's discuss encoder decoder attention.
So keep in mind here, encoder decoder attention
is also known as attention mechanism,
but that's often confused with attention masking,
which is like very, uh, proximal to this discussion.
So let's use encoder decoder attention terminology.
Um, it's a key component in this sequence sequence, um,
thought process and process.
Um, particularly in the tasks like machine translation, uh,
like translating English to Spanish or something like that.
Um, it enables the model to selectively focus
on different parts of the input sequence when generating
each element of the output sequence.
The, the attention mechanism here, um,
encoder decoder attention enhances the model's ability
to capture long range dependencies like I was saying before,
and align the input and output sequences effectively.
So again, we've discussed this part.
Um, and here we have their embedding output.
Um, and we are looking at the decoder,
specifically this area here.
Um, so the initial decoder state is initialized
with this context vector that we get from the out, uh,
the encoder process.
Um, often the last hidden state of that encoder.
Um, and
that context vector contains information about the entire
input sequence, so that, um,
input sequence in both the embedding and the sequence
and the contextual vector, um, altogether, um,
during the decoding process.
The intention mechanism, uh, encoder decoder attention
allows the decoder to focus on different parts
of the encoded input sequence dynamically, depending on
what is relevant for generating the next element
in the output sequence.
Um, attention scores are calculated
to determine the relevance of each encoded input element
to the current decoding step.
Um, and so how, good question on sequence length.
So there are limitations.
You can't drop the entire ilead into this process.
Um, but that's mostly gait or limited by overflow errors.
Um, so when you're generating your model yourself, um, it,
um, it's quite robust to long,
uh, vectors, but you can't drop
the entire internet in there.
So it's kind of just something that, um,
your model will have to, uh, process on its own,
but you can drop quite long vectors in there.
Um, so for attention scores, the scores are computed based
on the similarity between the decoders hidden, uh,
current state and the encoded representations
using a mechanism like the dot product attention.
Um, and we're gonna be getting a little bit more in depth,
uh, looking at some soft max
and things like that in the next couple slides.
And, um, here we've got the process
of encoder decoder attention.
Um, here we have the key vector.
We have the query vector, and we have the values vector.
So very similar to what we had before.
Uh, the, um, input array is going
to be I am eating an apple.
And at this layer only the output of the encoder here
is used in that decoder.
Um, and the, what these vectors represent,
uh, q may represent the query like in a Google
search or something like that.
And that, uh, comes directly from the encoder, whereas K
and V, those are gonna represent the already mapped input
sequence in a vector representation, uh, from the encoder.
Um, and that encoder decoder block
multiplies the takes the dot product, the q
and the K vector to find the match between the Q
and the K vector, and then generate the weights
for each value vector.
And then looking at the loss function, um, which is
a calculation in this process.
Um, the cross entropy loss is commonly used, uh, here,
uh, lots of natural language processing applications,
but one of its most popular application is going to be in,
um, the encoder decode process.
Um, so given the true distribution,
um, which is here, um,
and then the predicted distribution here, um, we,
we can calculate the cross entropy loss.
So you can think of this similar to kind of like residuals
in, um, RNN, uh, recurrent neural network
and, uh, logistic regression and things like that.
Um, so for training, um, the aim is
to minimize cross entropy loss.
And typically that's done with things like gradient based,
uh, optimization, um,
and methods that, uh,
improve model fit and things like that.
Adjusting and fine tuning these model parameters to reduce
this loss function.
Um, the model learns through sign higher probabilities
to the correct classes
or tokens, thus improving its predictions.
So it can, the model can calculate loss function
and improve as it iterates.
Um, it's critical to select an appropriate loss function,
uh, in accordance with the task that you're,
uh, trying to accomplish.
Uh, cross entropy loss is pretty well suited to, uh,
specifically classification algorithms, uh,
and generation tasks
where the outputs are things like probability distributions,
um, which is super helpful for,
uh, transformers specifically.
So we usually do use loss function to, uh,
measure our model success.
All right. So just to summarize quickly, um,
self attention is the key to the transformers,
um, and it's just simply calculating correlation
between each token In the input sequences, um,
self attention has the query key value vectors
and just as the dot product, uh, to of those vectors
to generate the self attention scores.
Um, we need multi-head attention
to capture different correlations between tokens
and the, uh, the sequential parallel nature.
So going from sequential to parallel, um,
of the transformer, um, really improves model speed
and allows for additional complexity compared
to the previously presented, uh, sequence to sequence model.
Um, there are some limitations of the transformer high comp,
um, which is like high computational complexity.
Um, but with the improvements of, uh, cloud computing
and improvements in computing in general, um,
they are less problematic than they were
previously in the past.
Um, and transformers are used in a ton
of different applications, um, like in trans, uh,
translation, uh, English to other languages
or any language to any other language,
and also in lots of domains like the computer vision
and classification and things like that.
And then, uh, I'm,
you want me getting these slides afterwards so you can see,
um, what the, where the references are,
but these are some great references.
Um, I also really like Stat Quest, um, on YouTube, uh,
has really good lectures if you wanna dive deeper onto a
different topic or things like that.
Um, really great resources.
Also, Google Scholar has, uh, lots
of interesting articles on state-of-the-art
algorithms and things like that.
All right, we're going next.
We're going to talk about Bert.
Um, so Bert is an acronym,
um, and it is build, or it's for building
and training, uh, the state
of the art natural language processing models.
Um, and the acronym is Bidirectional
Encoder Representations from Transformers.
So Burt Models, um,
in using Burt models, we can generate text like humans.
Um, so we know how we can use transformer models
for learning attention mechanisms.
And what we need is
to generate new text using encoder decoder architecture.
So we have all of the tools
after we learn Bert in, in our, um,
tool belts, which will help build a model, uh,
which will not only generate new text,
but understand languages like we do as humans.
So at the end of this section,
you will not only understand the Burt model,
but also understand popular Burt architecture
and lots of different fine tuning, uh,
for a specific task.
So just as a top level overview, we have the Bert model, uh,
which was developed by Google, uh, a few years ago
through a research paper.
Um, and it's a pre-trained model.
Um, and then there have been lots of improvements
to this model, um,
using things like Roberta and Electra and Albert.
Um, and we'll be discussing, um, how to use those,
um, and also why we would use that, um, model over Bert, um,
and why people still may use Bert for some examples.
Um, and we do actually have quite a few code demos.
We have two books, um, that will be going through that will,
uh, help kind of explore Bert a little bit.
All right, let's jump in.
So we're gonna get started with just a simple representation
of words and tokens.
Things like one hop lecture,
which we've talked about in the previous NLP uh, classes,
uh, TF IDF word embeddings, um, things like that.
But solving more complex things like language translation,
question answering, um, and high level performance.
Um, we do need model with some capacity
of language understanding.
We need syntax and semantics of each language.
We need context, and we need context, cognitive linguistics,
and a ton more.
And, um, the model with these capabilities, um,
have to be quite large.
And that brings us to large language models.
We're finally here. We're finally talking about chat, GPT.
Uh, so chat GPT is just kind of like a specific instance
of a large language model.
There are lots of, um,
less world renowned large language models
that we'll be talking about mostly here,
but mostly of those rules are going to apply to
whenever your roommates or friends
or family ask, ask you how LLM works and how she GBT works.
So transfer learning is a really exciting concept.
Um, transfer learning is machine learning paradigm where
a model trained on one task is leveraged
or adapted, uh, from or for a different
but kind of related task In a traditional
machine learning approach.
Uh, models are trained for a specific task from scratch
requiring a substantial amount of labeled data to train on.
Um, transfer learning on the other hand, takes advantage
of pre-trained models, pre-trained models.
That's a key concept here.
Um, and those model pre-trained models are trained on large
data sets and transfers the knowledge gained from
that training to perform well on a new
possibly smaller data set or related task.
So transfer learning involves two steps.
First step, pre-training.
The Bert model does this for us.
So a model is first trained on a huge data set
with a specific task, mostly in a supervised manner.
And that task is usually chosen, uh, to be a general
or related problem for which the amount
of labeled data, uh, is available.
The model learns relevant features
and patterns from that data, so it's trained really well on
that pre-training data.
And then, um, how we can improve it is by fine tuning.
That's the second step in the process.
Fine tuning or feature extraction.
Uh, and the pre-trained model is adapted
or fine tuned for the target task or the target data set.
The idea of this process is to kind of leverage the work
that's already been done for us, um, that knowledge
that was gained during the pre-training phase
to enhance the model's performance
on the specific task of interest.
And this adaptation can involve training the model on a
smaller data set related to the target task, um,
or just adjusting the specific layers of the model.
Um, there's lots of advantages of transfer learning.
One is data efficiency.
So the big lift of pre-training
that model has already done for you.
Um, and since the model originally is trained on
that huge dataset, it learns those generic features
that are applicable to a wide range of tasks.
And this can be especially beneficial when dealing
with limited label data for a specific task
or limited computational um, load,
or a situation where you, um, are putting, uh,
an excessive load on computations.
'cause a lot of that math is already done for you.
Um, also advantages in faster training.
Training a model from scratch on a large dataset can be
really expensive computationally and very time consuming.
Uh, and transfer learning allows us to start
with a pre-trained model, which saves a ton of time
and resource and improved generalization.
The knowledge gained from a diverse set of data
during pre-training, uh, usually helps us
and helps the model generalize really well
to new and unseen data.
Um, and that improves overall performance.
Um, it's really effective for related tasks.
Transfer learning is, um,
super effective when the pre-training task is related
to the target task and the shared features during that.
Um, pre-training can be beneficial when capturing relevant
patterns, uh, for those new tasks.
And for applicability across domains is another strength of,
uh, transfer learning.
Um, pre-trained models can really be transferred
across different domains.
So like a model trained on image classification may still be
useful, uh, for features related to computer vision,
even if the specific classes may differ.
So transfer learning can be applied
in lots of different ways.
Um, some of the ways I already kind of discussed
and the advantages, um,
but machine learning models in general dealing
with Latin national language processing can really be
strengthened with transfer learning.
Anything that has like a huge computational load, um,
if we can offset some of that load
by using transfer learning,
it's gonna be really beneficial for us.
Um, models for translating
between languages can also be modified, um, using
transfer learning and models that were developed.
Um, and trained using English language can be modified, um,
for tasks or languages that are similar.
Um, and also in, um, some basic like changing
from uh, one code, um, to another.
So like changing, uh, analysis you did from Art of Python,
uh, could be an area where you can use transfer learning.
Um, sometimes it's required for, um,
general code book changes.
Here's a, a pretty good graphical display
of transfer learning.
So in traditional machine learning,
we have a task and then we train a model.
So here's where we are traditional machine learning.
We have a task, we train a model, um,
and then we evaluate that.
Um, and if we have another task, we train another model
and then we evaluate that second model.
Uh, whereas with transfer learning, um, we have a task,
we have that model, we have the knowledge from the model,
um, and then that model, the model A improves
the task B comprehension and analysis.
So we get to have all of the learnings that we got
from the previous model analysis, um,
and we get to leverage that when, um, creating
and generating that second model.
Alright, um, looking at Bert as a example
of transfer learning.
So Bert, if we recall bi-directional
encoder representation, uh, from transformer,
and here is Bert from Sesame Street.
Um, if we have the example here,
sentence A and sentence B, sentence A, he got bit
by Python sentence B,
Python is my favorite programming language.
So we as humans are aware
what the two sentences differ by sentence.
A talks about the snake Python
sentence B talks about the programming language, uh, Python,
which we all know and love.
So as humans, we are aware of that difference.
Um, if we get the embeddings for the word python
in the previous two sentences using embedding models like
word deve, um, the embedding of the word python
would be the same in both sentences, which is a problem
because we need to know which one we're scared of, right?
Um, word deve is context free
and it will ignore that context
and always give us the same embedding
for both Python re uh, respective of the context.
Bert on the other hand, is context base,
so it will understand the context
and generate the embeddings, uh,
for the word based on the context.
So for the above sentence A
and B, um, it will give different embeddings
for the word Python based on the context.
Um, and like I was saying
before, it was this Bert algorithm was created initially
by Google, improved by some of the other big tech companies.
Um, and it, it was,
and still is considered a,
a great breakthrough in the field.
Um, there are a couple of papers, um, on Birch, uh,
that will link, um, in the presentation references slides.
Um, and like I was saying
before, one of the major reasons for the success, um,
of the Burt model is it's context based, which allows us
to really improve, um, the mappings here
and advantages of Burt by bi-directional,
um, and works for task specific models.
It is trained on these huge corpuses, so lots
and lots of pre-training data,
and that makes it easier for small, uh, more defined
and LP tasks, which in our day in day out work is, uh, uh,
frequently what we're working on.
Typically, we're not working on billions of records.
We're working on, you know, hundreds of thousands
or millions, um,
or even smaller, um, metrics can be fine tuned,
um, and used almost immediately, which is super great.
Um, and we'll see some of that in the demo.
Um, the accuracy of the model is really high, um,
because it is frequently updated.
Um, and that can be, uh, really beneficial
for successful fine tuning and training.
And, um, Bert model is available
and pre-trained in lots of different, um,
which is really helpful for a global scale.
Um, answering the question from, um, Baskar, uh,
for Python vector embeddings,
we will have different embeddings for the two sentences be,
um, that is because of the words
surrounding the word Python.
Um, so that in some cases is true,
um, but it is much more accurate
to use a more advanced model like, uh, Bert
or one of the other, um, more contextually rich models.
So great clarification.
Alright,
so Bert, I'm gonna say the acronym again,
it's always helpful to keep reiterating the acronym,
bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers.
Um, architecture is fundamentally based
on the encoder component of the original transformer.
Um, and if you get bit by a python
and you be interpreted as the love
of the Python language, I'm not sure.
I think that really depends on, uh,
how you feel about getting bit, uh,
I had snakes when I was a kid
and I was always a little bit afraid of 'em.
Um, okay, so Bert,
as an encoder marvel, it really is a state
of the art algorithm when it was initially created.
Um, contextualized representations.
Bert uses, uh, the transformer encoder process input data,
which is a lot of jargon, transformer encoder
to process input data.
And it uses that process to, uh,
forge high dimensional context rich.
Um, so while we do have some context in our previous
methodologies, this really improves the context.
Um, the handling these embeddings do not merely mirror
the input words or phrases,
but they also encapsulate their meanings in light
of the surrounding context, offering a robust, uh,
foundation for various downstream
natural language processing tasks.
Um, so pre-training
is going to be the main benefit here.
Masked language modeling,
which we're gonna be talking a little bit
about in the next coming slides.
Um, Bert went through huge pre-training regimen
involving tasks, um, like that mass language modeling,
where random words in a sentence are masked
and the model is trained
to predict them based on surrounding context.
Um, and we're also going to be doing, um,
next sentence prediction, um, which is another way
that the Burt model was trained.
Um, Bert will, in next language
or next sentence prediction, uh, Bert attempts
to predict whether the two sentences are likely
to appear contextually or, uh, consecutively in a text.
Um, and that training helps it cultivate an understanding
of relationships and coherence between sentences.
These pre-training steps serve as a crucial playground,
allowing Burt to learn dynamic languages,
syntactical properties, and semantic nuances
before it embarks on specific tasks.
Um, another section that we're gonna be discussing is
word positional information.
Um, unlike some earlier models that might overlook, uh,
the sequential nature of language,
Bert will meticulously incorporate word positions
information into its embeddings.
Um, and when forming those embeddings,
Bert encodes positional information to make sure
that the sequential
and, uh, structural aspects
of the language which are super pivotal in understanding
and meaning and context are preserved
and utilized in the training phase.
Um, Bert's ability
to create deeply contextualize word representation
has really pioneered the advancements in lots
of natural language processing algorithms.
Um, providing a powerful pre-trained starting point for lots
of tasks, uh, like tech summarization and question answering
and a ton of other stuff.
There would not be Chad GBT without Bert.
Um, and as we embrace the elegance of Bert,
we observe how it's architecture, uh,
founded on the transformer encoder
and enriched through some pre-training, um,
how it offers robust context aware base for
tons of different NLP uh, applications.
And moving forward, uh, let's look at how Bert is adapted
and fine tuned, uh, for specific use cases
and Bert input representation.
Uh, we can see how Bert manages all
of these different inputs
and how that's going to be different from, um, all
of the improvements on Bert
that we're gonna be talking about later.
Um, and we are now at the halfway point of the lecture time,
um, and this is the point where I know I can get monotone
and sometimes like, oh my gosh,
Ben is gonna be talking for another two hours.
But, uh, I really appreciate everybody's, um, understanding
and, um, attention that you're paying to the class.
This is really important to,
these are really important topics
and I'm sure that it will be helpful for
to your career in the future.
Having this knowledge in natural,
natural language processing is going to be,
uh, really beneficial.
Even if you're not a natural language processing engineer,
it's always important
to remember all of these, these things.
Um, so a four hour lecture is a really long time,
so I really appreciate everybody's time
and willingness to have their wrapped attention, uh,
for these whole four-ish hours.
So looking at Howbert manages these embeddings
and understanding their, uh, words
and their order in the sentences.
So if we have the input sentence, my dog is cute, um,
he likes playing, um,
and see I as a human immediately combined those.
Um, but Bert, um,
can, might not necessarily do that.
Um, and we'll talk about how Bert is different, uh,
when combining these
or these words versus the improvements on it in the future
or in the future slides.
So for token embedding, so remember, each
of these are tokens that are embedded.
Uh, this is the embedded token of each one of these.
We have an entire embedding for,
or we have an entire embedding for just the, um,
ING at ending.
Um, so this is a map
from words or word pieces to vectors of numbers.
Imagine like each word here is getting a unique fingerprint
that's effectively just a bunch of numbers of numbers.
These are looked up from a table.
And yes, these vectors are learned during training.
Bert will tweak them bit by bit as it learns
to reduce prediction errors in, uh, the training tasks.
And that's token embeddings
in segment embeddings.
Once we finish token embedding, um,
birth could be reading a sentence or two,
and if it's two, it needs
to know which word belongs to which sentence.
Um, so words from the first sentence
here, my dog is cute.
And the words from the second sentence he likes playing,
um, have separators in between.
They're segment embedded or segment embedded,
and they are added to the token embeddings of all
of the words in each of their respective sentences.
Um, they're also learned
and refined during the training process.
So, um, vasan answering your first question,
what's up with the split?
Uh, let me just discuss that live real quick.
Um, so
if you consider the English language, um,
there's lots of tenses.
Uh, so we have like, play played,
playing, et cetera, right?
Um, so here is just play here is play ed,
and here's play, ING.
So for the concept of play, we have
at least three different interpretations, uh, replicated by
the different, uh, the different text, the different,
uh, sorry, I'm blanking on the, the sub
or the, um, following words, the tense.
So Ed or uh, um, ING.
So we have to store each one of those as opposed
to if we just have ING stored,
then we can use that embedding, uh, to apply
to just the base word.
So like, if you think of play, um,
and we have playing, um,
and we can think of something like eat, uh,
we can apply this same contextual embedding of, uh,
hash ING to all verbs, um, playing,
eating, um, looking things like that.
So that really saves space
because we can have each of these sections
stored separately.
Alright, so covering token, embedding segment,
embedding, position embedding.
Um, so for position embedding right here, um,
Bert will need to know the position
of a word within a sequence.
So I think that gets a little bit into how's question.
Um, but ta please feel free to answer that as well.
Uh, your answers are very complete, which is awesome.
Um, so to achieve that, each position up
to the max sequence length gets its own.
Embedding another bunch of numbers, um,
is the embedding words in the first position,
get the first positional,
embedding words within the second position,
get the second positional embedding, and so on and so forth.
These positional embeddings, um, are also learned during
that training phase and
bringing everything together.
Each word is represented by a sum of three vectors
has its own token embedding has its own segment embedding,
um, and has its own positional embedding.
Um, all of these numbers are crunched together
to give us a pretty rich cocktail of information
for each word to Bert.
Um, and how are they learned?
How does Bert, uh, educate itself?
How is it machine learning?
Um, Bert tries to get better at all of these tasks.
Um, and if it makes a mistake, it slightly adjusts all
of these embeddings to reduce the chance
of making the same mistake.
Next time.
Bert gradually fine tunes this understanding of words
as it learns the meanings of those words, the order of the,
those words and the sentence, uh, membership
to get a better understanding at text took
me quite a few years to learn English, uh, and how to speak.
Um, Bert is only a couple years old,
so is doing a great job so far.
And like we discussed,
remember we've got positional embedding, segment embedding,
token embedding, and from all of those three embeddings,
um, we can have the sentence, um, Paris is a beautiful city,
and sentence BI love Paris.
So those tokenizing those different sentences, we can get,
um, lots of different tokens,
uh, distinct for each sentence.
Um, so we have, Paris is a beautiful city,
and then a separator.
I love Paris. So two different sentences, uh,
and we'll be talking about that in the next slide.
So here we have those sentences. Paris is a beautiful city.
I love Paris. I personally have never been there,
but the lecture slides have, um, position embedding
is used to incorporate information about the position
of words or tokens within a sequence.
So how position embedding works, um, in
transformer models, like what we're talking about today.
Position embedding is added to the embedding vectors
of the input tokens.
Um, and that provides information about
how their positions are in this sequence
that allows the Burt model to distinguish between, um,
different positions in a sequence without relying
solely on the token order.
Um, our encoding function, um,
the positional encoding here is usually created
with a mathematical function.
Um, and that generates a unique vector in, um,
each position for each sequence.
Um, most common approach here is
to use like trigonometry functions,
like we were talking about earlier in the slide, like sign
and code is signed to create those embeddings, um,
that capture the positional information there.
Um, and Bert is essentially the
Transformers encoder in general.
Um, and we need to give Bert information about the position
of those words in our sentence
before feeding them directly into Burt.
Um, so kind of similar to
what we had in the previous slides, just at a,
a more advanced level, um, positional embedding
is used to get the position, uh, the,
or provide that position, uh, vector to Burke or to Burt.
Um, and Bert specifically used
trained positional embeddings.
So like what we're looking at in this example, each one
of these, um, embeddings
is translated here.
So 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, where separators are also,
and, uh, start statement at close statement are also
considered in those embeddings
and explaining it further in the coming slides
For segment embeddings, um,
we use segment embeddings to distinguish two sentences.
So we have this one segment here. Paris is a beautiful city.
And then we have the next segment here. I love Paris.
See how the segment embedding.
This is segment one or segment A.
Um, and then this is segment B.
Um, so apart from that separator token, we kind of sort out,
um, the indicator of our model to distinguish
between those two sentences.
Um, so we feed in both input tokens, each segment, um,
and then we output the segment embeddings to, uh,
enrich that context.
And then for the final phase, uh, token embedding
in this diagram, we have all the
embeddings for all the tokens.
And, um, CLS
indicates the embedding of that token.
Um, and e Paris, um,
indicates the embedding of the Paris token
and so on and so forth.
Uh, so the token embedding is a representation of each
of those words, or sub words or strings
or sentences in
that language converted into a continuous vector space.
Um, these embeddings capture semantic relationships
between the words.
Um, so that allows us to really have rich context
and for our models to understand the, uh,
process of national language.
So like I said
before, all of the separators, um, that's
how we separate sentence to sentence.
And CLS is for classification. Um, separators used to.
So, uh, that's kind of the input token is we're classifying.
Um, and before feeding all those tokens in divert,
we convert those tokens into embeddings
and using the embeddings, um, we have that final layer
of token embedding.
Um, and all of these token embeddings will be learned
during that training process.
So getting even further,
we've got the Bert tokenization mechanism.
And, um, Bert
uses a very special kind of tokenize,
which is called the word piece, tokenize, not to be confused
with one piece tokenize.
Um, let's start
by pre-training the model here in this example.
Um, so we have that sentence.
Let us start pre-training.
Uh, the model, remember, uh,
pre is a prefix.
That's what I was looking before, prefix and suffix.
Um, so if we take the prefix
and suffix of all base words, um, then
that saves us a ton of space.
So pre-train, um,
And pre-training
becomes train
with the suffix, pre or prefix pre,
and then the suffix, um, in,
Um, and that is the tokenized vector here.
So one thing that you can notice is if, if
that token is not presi, uh, present in the vocabulary,
it'll split it into sub tokens, like I was saying,
with the prefix and the suffix.
Um, and we do that until we can find all
of the tokens in the vocabulary.
So we have this unique, uh, corpus bank of tokens,
um, that we end in a unigram.
Um, and in the above example, we can see that, uh,
pre-training is split into those three segments.
Um, every sub token, um, which is a part of a word, is, um,
given that hash mark to differentiate it from other tokens.
Um, and this strategy better handles the unseen token
during the inference phase.
And like we were saying
before, really helps us
with reducing the size complexity of our model.
All right, so now we're gonna get a little bit deeper
into how Burt was trained.
So the Burt methodology, um,
uses two general sections, uh, for training.
Um, and that is, we kind of discussed it a little bit
before, mast language model,
MLM, not to be confused with LLM.
Um, and then next sentence prediction.
Uh, questions have been relatively
quiet for the last little bit.
Um, we are going to take a break in a couple of minutes,
um, at 1130, let's take a break.
Um, usually I'll watch questions come in,
and if we like have a low volume, um, that means
that everybody's really tired
and I believe in you, we can do it together.
We've got just over 90 minutes remaining.
And, um, this has been a lot of lecture slides.
I think we've got some code demos, which are always fun
to watch in, um, three or four slides.
So we'll take a break once we get to the code demo.
We've got 1, 2, 3 slides including this one.
Um, and then we'll get to the code demo,
and then we'll do the code demo, and then we'll start fresh
and be excited and everybody is gonna learn
today and it's gonna be awesome.
Okay? Uh, mass language modeling is used,
um, for the pre-training phase of models like Bert.
Um, who remembers what Bert stands for?
Drop it into the chat.
All right, five seconds until I
give you the first word as a hint.
Bi-directional is the first word,
second word we talked a lot about earlier.
Oh, look at that. Great work. Great work. Benjamin.
Great work. Have great work. Fassan crushed it.
Bi-directional encoder representations from transformers.
All right, good work team.
Um, okay, so Bert, the goal
of MLM is to train a model to predict missing
or mass words with a given context, promoting
a deep language, or sorry, promoting a deep understanding
of language, um, semantics and context.
Um, here's how it works.
So our input, how are you doing today?
We put it into this black box,
Burt mass language model and the output.
How are you doing today, um, with this mask?
See, I naturally filled that in as a human.
I read, how are you today doing today?
And I just implicitly put that mask in as you,
we know that that value is likely you as humans.
Um, but we're not letting Bert know that
we're testing Bert on that.
So we have that masked.
Um, and then the output is a probability vector
where we have you,
uh, they or your,
all of those are potential options for the output, whether
or not they're grammatically correct, they're still options.
And then, uh, the Bert output process, uh,
will assign probabilities.
So probability, that's statistics, terminology
or statistics, um, diction.
Um, so they may have probability of you probably like,
I don't know, maybe 80%.
Uh, how are they doing today? Maybe that's like 10%.
How are your doing today?
Uh, maybe that's like 10% or, um, like 5%.
And then, um, it will provide enough
to, uh, give options to, uh, some to one typically.
Um, but the model would choose the mask here as
how are you doing today?
Just like you and I would.
Um, so said in different words, the input sequence,
which is usually some type of sentence or text.
In this case, it's how are you doing today?
Or how are masks doing today?
Um, the impex has a certain percentage of the words
or tokens randomly selected and replaced with a mask.
Token does not always have
to be just the one, it could be many.
Um, this masking is done to create a situation
where the model must predict mask words
based on the surrounding context.
Um, that objective of this process is
to model, um,
and predict the original identities of that mask.
Token is the original identity you, is it they, is it your,
that's what Bert's job is.
Um, this task inherently is bidirectional
because, uh, the model must consider both the left
and the right context to accurately predict the, um,
uh, the output, the missing words.
So that's why Bert is bidirectional,
uh, for the training.
The model is presented
with sequences containing mask tokens,
and it learns to generate the correct tokens
by optimizing a loss function.
Y'all remember loss functions, we talked about it eons ago
and, you know, 50 or so slides ago.
Um, so using that loss function, it will optimize, uh,
the training process and, uh, identify the discrepancy
of the predicted probabilities, uh, for the mask tokens
and the actual tokens.
Um, and then for fine tuning downstream tasks,
after that pre-training process on, um,
the mass language model task, a model can be fine tuned
on a specific downstream task like text classification,
named entity recognition, uh, things like that
to leverage knowledge gained
during the mass language, um, modeling phase.
Um, so we start with this kind
of general Bert model,
and then we leverage, um,
the specifics.
Uh, when we're tasked with,
are we interested in text classification?
Are we interested in named entity recognition, uh,
et cetera, et cetera, to improve and fine tune the model.
Alright, now what's the other side of Bert?
Next sentence prediction. NSP.
So in this example, Assan likes cookies.
Do you like them? And Bert
d uh, determines classification.
Yes. Sentence B follows sentence A.
So, next sentence prediction.
Um, the goal in general is to train a model
to predict whether a given pair
of consecutive sentences in a corpus
follows each other logically or if they're randomly paired.
Um, so for a sentence, pair construction
pairs in a consecutive sentence are randomly sampled
from a large corpus.
For each pair, there's at least 50% chance that the next,
uh, that the second sentence in
that pair is actually the next sentence, um,
that follows the first one.
Um, and there's a 50% chance that it doesn't,
um, for labeling.
Once that process is the sentence for construction is done,
um, the model is then trained to predict whether
or not the next sentence is indeed the next sentence,
or that it logically follows the first one.
If it is the next sentence, then it's labeled as is next,
or binary one.
Um, or if it's a random sentence, it's not next
or binary zero.
Um, and that objective is training the model.
Um, it's optimized to correctly classify, uh, yes
or no to next sentence.
And that loss function that is calculated
by the correct yes no prediction, uh,
measures the discrepancy between the predicted probabilities
and the true false labels.
Um, learning contextual representations
by training on the next sentence, prediction task.
The model learns to understand the relationships
between the sentences, um,
between the sentences
and the, um, rest of the model.
And for fine tuning as we get further down, um,
after pre-training on tasks like next sentence,
pre prediction, um, we can fine tune
on specific downstream te tasks, uh, like in MLM,
tax test, classification, named entity recognition,
and lots of other stuff.
Alright, let's get through this last slide
and then we'll take the break.
This slide should be pretty quick actually.
So, um, this just kind of demonstrates
how huge Bert is in general.
Uh, so Bert oftentimes is fit on.
Um, I think our download in the code, um,
is like one over one gigabyte.
Uh, so for a model that's largely string based, um,
and just general parameters and vectors, um, that's huge.
A gigabyte that's massive.
Think about an Excel sheet that's a gigabyte.
Um, lots and lots and lots of rows and columns.
Um, and this is much more compressed than a Excel sheet.
Um, so there's Burt base that's about 10, uh,
or 110 million parameters.
You can think of parameters as like columns.
Um, Burt Large has three times that.
Um, and there's Burt, tiny, Burt, mini, Burt, small, Burt,
medium, lots of different Burts.
Um, and this is the size complexity of each one of those.
So l here, oh, lemme get the pen out.
Um, l here is, uh, the number of encoder layers,
and h is the number of embedding dimensions.
Um, so as we go from tiny
to base, uh, we increase in size.
Um, so the, the main goal here is, um,
use the right tool for the job.
Don't use a huge one when you have a small problem
or don't use a tiny one when you have a huge problem.
Um, and you can apply many different ways to,
um, optimize your model.
And I recommend doing that for each, uh, model.
Uh, sorry, I'm just reading the question.
Uh, correct in drawing a correlation
between the continuous back of words
and the way we use, uh, bird utilize maps.
I, I think there's certainly a correlation.
Um, looks like Rosh is, uh, also answering that question.
Um, so that may be more helpful, uh,
while we get towards our break.
Uh, so good work everybody.
Uh, we made it to the next break.
Um, it is 1133 Pacific.
Um, so that will put us back at, uh,
1143 Pacific.
Um, so I will see you all in 10 minutes.
All right, everybody, uh, let's get started again.
Um, so we are back together.
We just finished talking about Burt in theory.
Now we are going to talk about Burt in practice.
Um, and here I am now standing.
Um, okay, here's the code book.
Everybody should be able to see.
Um, actually it looks like I need to reshare
screen four.
All right, can everybody see the, uh,
Bert examples, pre-trained model?
All right, thank you, Benjamin. Uh,
the thank you, uh, that, like, if I made it all the way
through this and then nobody could see the code.
Okay, so this is a really great code book to demonstrate.
Uh, Bert Bert does take, uh, quite a bit of time to run.
So I've, um, done the run beforehand.
Um, and if we have some time, we can, um,
look at each individually, um, and rerun.
But, um, Bert is a huge model,
so it does actually have some, um, computational time, uh,
that would not be great during the demo.
Um, all right, let's zoom in a little bit.
Thanks for, uh, asking. Is that better?
All right, cool. Thank you for prompting.
Um, this is actually displayed on a huge screen, uh, for me,
so, um, it might show up small on the screen.
Share. I, okay, cool.
So just going
through our favorite acronym,
Bi-Directional Encoder Representations from Transformers.
It's based on Transformers deep learning model,
which we've learned about, um, and deep learning
because it does have that, uh, feedback loop, uh,
pre-training, um, to, um, the next application model.
Uh, each output element is connected into the input element,
and the weightings
between them are dynamically calculated
based on their connection.
Um, it's designed to have
that pre-trained deep bi-directional representation
from unlabeled text jointly, uh,
conditioning the left and the right context.
Uh, all right, let's zoom in a little bit more.
Um, so implementing the pre-trained Bert model
for the following tasks, quest
or text summarization is what we're gonna talk about first,
and then it's gonna follow by question and answering system.
Um, definitely prompt me in the chat.
I'm looking at it in another screen if you can't see.
Um, let me f 11 this, so it's a little bit better.
Uh, can I minimize this? Yes.
All right. Um, so
remember this is pre-run to avoid delays.
Um, so here we are installing the, uh, required libraries.
And if you haven't used CoLab
before, it's fairly new, super great.
Um, but it uses a lot of, uh, terminal commands.
So here we just have PIP install, um, Bert, uh,
extractive summarizer.
So this is that Burt Library.
Um, and you can see, um, it checks a lot
of Burt different requirements for previous packages.
Um, and then we import the Bert Summarizer.
Um, and that actually takes quite a bit of time, um,
has nice progress bars that you can see.
Um, but we use that.
Um, again, Bert conveys core information of original text
through the shortest text possible.
Um, here we're gonna do some sentence summary,
and they're generated by the model, not just extracted.
So this is generative.
Um, so now let's summarize text with Bert.
So first, load the model, um, kind of similar
to like linear regression
and all of the other psychic learn packages.
We just declare a summarizer, uh,
to burnt model, uh, variable.
Um, and second step, uh,
to generate and print out the summary.
Uh, we have the original text.
Um, for parameters, we have the model, um, which is
that Bert summary model, uh, text.
We have the original text, which is down here, Um,
min length notes, minimum length of the summary.
Great variable name, number of sentences is number
of sentences that'll be available in the summary.
Uh, so we have text, we have min length, um,
number sentences.
Um, and then that goes into the Bert model function,
which is, uh, the summarizer, um, that
we then print, uh, Bert summary.
Um, and that's run. We have, uh, so that's just the model.
Um, notice, so this is just a, a python thing.
Uh, if you're not super aware of Python.
So here we're, uh, just declaring the model.
Um, we are not calling the model.
So, um, once we declare the model here, um,
then we declare the text, natural language processing,
not gonna read that whole thing.
Um, but we have this, uh, whole block of text.
And then, um, we pass that through
this previously declared Jen text summary function.
Um, so we have model which we declared text,
which we declared minimum length is, uh, 60 number
of sentences is three, so we call that.
Um, and then it's just avoid function, uh,
which means it doesn't return anything, it just prints,
uh, or does the task.
Um, and you can see that it prints the summary.
Um, so it has this whole text, um, here
that I didn't wanna read at all,
and this whole summary, uh, with, um,
a significantly shorter, um, text
that is a little bit more approachable for reading.
Uh, so text summarization is, uh, a great use
of the burn model as well.
Um, so here we can summarize it into
two sentences, so it's even shorter.
And I actually might read this one. Here we go.
Natural language processing is an area of computer science
and artificial intelligence concerned with interaction
between human, uh, between computers
and humans in natural language.
Natural language processing has, uh, existed
for more than 50 years and has roots in the field of,
uh, linguistics.
Um, so that is a great summary.
Uh, from this, you can see it's pulled out some sentences,
like natural language processing has, uh, existed
for more than 50 years in brute field of linguistics.
Um, but like all of this kind of stuff in the middle here,
not super critical as defined by bird.
Um, and that's actually something really important, um,
in the work that I'm doing now, um,
with just summarizing models.
Um, so if we have like an org leader, for example,
that um, is talking to thousands
and thousands of their direct reports, their employees,
and they don't want to audit a million different emails, um,
about different opinions.
So we can take this overall text
of a million emails
and distill it into this much more readable
by somebody who's time limited, um,
interpretation and summary.
And that org leader
with a thousand direct reports can get general sentiment
of their overall employee experience.
And that's something that is, um, really valuable to a lot
of different org leaders and, uh, connected to a lot
of the work I'm doing currently at Microsoft.
Um, so that's summarization for Bert.
Question answering tasks, um,
that's a whole separate topic.
Um, here, input to the Bert model
is typically in question and paragraph form.
Um, Bert has to extract the answer
of the given question from that paragraph.
The input embeddings of that are, uh, the sum
of the token embeddings
and, um, involve some of the segment embeddings as well.
Um, token embeddings, the context token is added
to the input words at, uh,
the token at the beginning of the question.
And that separator, um, so that, um, period
between sentences token is inserted at the end of,
uh, both the question and the paragraph.
For segment embeddings, A marker indicating sequence A
or sequence B is added to each token.
Um, this allows the model to distinguish between sentences.
Um, and we can look at the diagram below.
So all those tokens are marked as a, uh,
for the first sentence and b for the second sentence.
So for the input question of
how many parameter does Bert large have, um, we have,
um, the question here
and then the reference with separator here.
So we have the separator preloaded if, uh,
there's a feature question or anything like that.
Um, and then the reference text,
which has been pre-trained on the model
is bur large is really big.
It has 24 layers
and embedding size of over a thousand for a total of, uh,
340 million parameters.
And that's over a gigabyte for just that model.
Um, so it's gonna take a couple minutes to download
to your collab instance, which is why we've done it already.
Um, so first of all, we, uh, to do the rest
of this demo, we're installing all the required libraries
for, uh, question answering tasks.
Um, and then we, um, upgrade those in informers
and, uh, all of the earth transformers.
So we have all these packages installed,
and I believe you're provided this, uh, demo afterwards
so you can, uh, do it on your own instance.
Um, importing the required libraries,
we have Bert for question answer.
This is a nice feature of CoLab.
We get, um, the, um,
documentation right in the tool tip there when you
hover over that text.
And then we have Burt Tokenize, um,
and then Torch, which is a great package.
Uh, and then the model in general, um, Burt,
large Uncased word masking fine tuned squad, uh,
that whole large, um, descriptor, uh,
it's a pre-trained on the English language using
masked, uh, language modeling.
So everybody remember mask language modeling.
That was an exciting, uh, uh, slide.
Um, so this model is not cased
and it does not make difference between, uh,
English and English.
Um, and surprisingly that has caused me a lot of headache.
Um, so it's good that that's already done for you.
Um, you know, you haven't been in code
unless you've, uh, wasted an entire day
because of, uh, bad case, uh, management.
So it's good that it's already done it for you.
Um, so differently to other Burt models.
This was trained using a new technique,
which is whole word masking.
Um, so in that case, all the tokens corresponding
to a word are master all at once.
Um, the overall masking rate remains the same,
but in this case,
each mask word piece token is predicted independently.
Um, and then after pre-training, um, it has been fine tuned.
Um, this specific, uh, bur large case on hold bird masking,
uh, it's been fine tuned
by the squad dataset on the squad dataset.
Uh, so we have this specific squad dataset that we have used
to improve and fine tune our model.
Um, and
after that fine tuning, we've got 24 layers
over a thousand hidden dimensions, 16 attention heads, um,
and just over 300 million parameters, um,
which is slightly different than what we had
before in the base model, which is, uh, uh, 340 million.
So slightly simplified here.
Um, so loading the model Bert,
uh, model here, uh, from pre-trained
the uncased forward masking fine tuned squad.
See how long this takes to run.
All right, already run, look at that.
So we can see the output here.
Um, this is mostly just initializing it,
loading the tokenize, which we've already done.
Um, and then declaring the function.
So what this function will do is it'll be helpful
for finding the answer to a given question
from a given paragraph.
Um, so remember that example in code
or in, uh, the lecture slides where we're talking about
where does a question start, where does a question end?
Um, so we use the function in code plus
to encode that sequence.
That function returns a dictionary that contains input IDs,
token type IDs, uh, and the attention mask.
Um, but we only need input IDs
and token type IDs for, uh, the quality assurance task.
So here we're declaring the encoding variable
with this function in code plus.
Um, and then we have the question,
and then, um, the text pair, uh, question
or text pair text, um,
and then we have our inputs in the token embedding.
And then we have our segment
embeddings, like we were talking about before.
And then we have our input tokens.
Um, so we have, from there, we declare start scores
and end scores using the, uh, model input.
Um, and we use that to pass parameters, uh,
like the token embedding, segment embedding
that are declared up here.
Um, and then we use the arg max function
to get the start index of the answer
and then the end index of the answer.
So remember, um, if you have,
let's find an example here, um, in this big block of text,
the question is, what is machine learning?
And then this is the return, uh, text.
Um, so it's important for us to be able to identify
what section of a user prompt is the actual question.
So that's what we mean when we have the start index
and the end index of the question
and the answer you ever talking about the answer.
Um, and then we have finding the answer from a given
paragraph using the start and end index.
Um, and then here we have recover any potential words
that were broken down into subs, um,
finally storing the correct answer, um,
and then printing it out.
Um, this is just a, a bucketing thing.
Um, and then we print out the final, uh,
correct answer at the end.
Um, so here at the end of the day,
we just have this simple output, right?
So the simple output, once we, uh, call the function up here
with the input of question and the output of paragraph
or the, uh, reference text paragraph, it's just, um,
user asks, what is machine
learning question is question here.
And paragraph is, um, that's the reference text.
Um, so the final corrected answer is going to be
the scientific study of algorithms and statistical models.
Um, so let's see if we can find this text
or this answer in that text.
So there we go. Machine learning is the scientific study
of algorithms and statistical models.
So considering the org leader example, um,
where we have this super important person
with a million direct reports, um,
and they are a very busy person
and they don't wanna read this entire block of text
because they look at it
and they're like, Ugh, that seems like a lot of work.
So you can deliver them something that is this, um,
model that simplifies.
So all they have to do is ask a question
and they get the answer from this overall corpus of text.
So this, uh, when scaled becomes something like chat two PT
where you can ask it pretty much anything
because it's paragraph
or corpus that it references is the entire internet.
So that is that code book.
Um, one thing that you can do to kind of like test case,
this is, uh, replace question
and paragraph with different prompts
and different response, uh, books.
So you can see how it changes over time
and how it changes with different inputs.
Um, but let me switch back over
to the lecture slides quickly.
Any questions on the code book
before we, uh, do the final switch back,
or not final switch until the next code book?
All right, thank you, Benjamin. Oh, look at that.
I didn't even have to resume.
Um, all right, let's keep rolling.
Let me just get the notes here.
Um, and here we're gonna look at
in addition to Bert, which has been, um,
really popular for a long time,
there have been improvements.
So, so on top of Bert, we now have Roberta
developed by Facebook, uh,
robustly optimized Bert pre-training approach, um,
which is simply, uh, put in statistic terms,
it's a bootstrapping, uh, improvement of, um, Bert.
And then we have Albert, which is a
simplified version of Bert.
Um, it takes effectively all of the good with minimal
of the bad, um,
and makes it a much more lightweight algorithm.
And then we have electro, which is efficiently learning
and encoder that classifies tokens, uh,
replacements accurately.
So said simply it, um, determines, uh, correctness, um,
and whether or not an item was replaced or original.
Um, but in a practical sense,
I would say we're 90% of the time going
to be using in our day-to-day work.
Uh, Roberta and Albert, um,
Electra could be used occasionally,
but it's a much more, uh, advanced nuance algorithm.
Um, in my personal work, uh, I would choose probably Albert
for most of the use cases,
and if I'm not getting good fitting,
I'd probably hit Albert or Roberta.
Um, and then maybe Bert
after that, uh, depending on a couple of cases that we're,
we'll talk about a in a second here.
All right. Uh, so for Roberta, um,
Roberta is an important variation of Bert, um,
in a short for robust optimized Bert pre-training approach.
So this variant of Bert, while
maintaining the foundational architecture of Bert, um,
introduces notable modifications
to the pre-training procedure
and enhances the model's capabilities.
Um, Bert does have some disadvantages with under training,
and that's been identified through lots
of different researchers, um,
and data scientists looking at the Burt model, uh, in depth.
Um, and they discerned a potential suboptimal
training issue, um,
and hypothesized that Burt could be Undertrained.
Uh, Roberta was, uh, formulated
to further exploit births potential, um,
by altering its pre-training regimen, usually by, um,
or mostly by implementing bootstrapping,
which is statistical sampling with repetition, um,
to improve the size of the dataset.
Um, and another way they did that is, uh, dynamic masking.
So remember the masking concept where we take a specific,
um, word and redact it.
Roberta introduces, uh, lots
of improvement using the masked language model task
using that dynamic masking.
So as opposed to static masking where the same word is, uh,
muted or masked each time, um, dynamic masking implies
that the words selected to be masked are different across
different aspects of training, different times we, uh,
iterate through, uh, training.
Um, so therefore, Roberta training is, um, only on the
MLM task and does not
rely on predicting the sequential relation
between the two sentences.
So Bert Algorithm uses both, um,
MLM mask language model, um, methodology to train
and next sentence prediction.
So uses of those.
Whereas Roberta just relies on masked language modeling.
Um, that adjustment that Roberta does, uh,
prevents the model from memorization of mask words, uh, due
to the continual change of the masked instances.
Um, so it can't just get good, um,
at memorizing things.
It actually has to learn where, uh,
the context could be used.
Um, so why would we drop NSP?
Why would we drop next sentence prediction?
Um, so it was initially present in Bert's training, um,
but we found that it was not as valuable
as we initially considered,
and, um, we removed it to allow for, um,
a more optimized model.
Um, so
because of that, we're able to use larger batch sizes
during training, and that has a more substantially, um,
increased number of examples, uh, for training.
Um, and it can happen concurrently during iteration.
Um, and then also Roberta utilizes bite level
BPE tokenize, uh, which is a lot of words,
BPE bite level pair encoding,
so BPE bite pair encoding.
Um, so it uses, Roberta uses BPE as a tokenize,
uh, providing it with a lot of advantages
and advantageous capability to handle text
and multiple languages
and effectively process larger text corpuses.
Um, so through all those changes in pre-training,
Roberta tries to navigate the challenges identified in Burt
achieving refined performance
through various natural language processing tasks
by fully leveraging the potential
of the transformer architecture.
Oh, my pen's. There we go. It was off.
All right, here we go.
So, Roberta, using dynamic masking instead
of static masking, remember that's
what we talked about the last slide.
Um, here we are going to, um, use an example.
So, um, static masking
again means we're hiding the same words every time.
Um, we show a sentence to the model during training,
so it's easier to predict sometimes, uh, that makes it,
um, under fit.
So dynamic masking, we, uh,
hide different words every time during training.
Um, so imagine a sentence, we make 10 copies of it.
Now we hide different words in each copy.
Like here, it's the same sentence, right?
We arrived at the airport in time.
Um, so we have sentence one, sentence two,
all the way to sentence 10.
So in sentence one, we're masking arrived
and we're masking time.
Sentence two, we're masking at, uh, we're masking airport
sentence 10, we're masking the, and we're masking
in.
Um, and we repeat those, uh, different processes,
randomization over time.
Um, and if you're interested, that concept of expanding
and randomizing, um, is just statistical bootstrapping.
Um, so let me write
that down if you're interested in researching it further.
So
It's bootstrapping applied in a different way.
So there's actually a lot of literature on it.
Um, and it's a very robust algorithm to improve.
Um, actually recently used it work, uh,
like just the other day to improve one of my analysis.
Um, and one thing that it does, it is it, uh,
creates a statistically kind of like a, a sample, um,
uh, a sample mean distribution, uh,
or sample normal distribution.
Um, and that really helps, um, improve algorithms
and allows you to play nice with, um, analyses.
Um, because instead of just having one record,
you have many records
and it, uh, leverages the central limit theorem to allow
for potential normal distributions
and sample means statistically.
Um, that's not exactly how we're using it in this context,
but it's in that same vein.
So it does, um, allow for improvements.
Alright,
Um, so training Roberta using dynamic masking.
So here we are training this model
for 40 epics, right?
So there are a ton of different replicates, um,
and we are, uh, replicating it many times.
So we are randomizing, randomizing, randomizing
and bootstrapping, et cetera, et cetera.
So for each epic we feed the sentence with, uh,
many different tokens
or with different tokens that are masked.
So same sentence, different tokens, mask each time, um,
the model will see that sentence, um,
repeated over and over again with different masks,
and that will help improve the model.
Um, so that is generally, um,
at a very high level how Roberta HA is trained
and how, um, it is different from Bert.
Um, but the top level that you have to remember of
how it's different Roberta
and Bert is Roberta does not use NSP.
Um, and it relies heavily on, uh, MLM, um,
and how it changes MLM
to improve it is dynamic masking.
So why would we use each of 'em?
Um, Roberta model more extension
of training dataset than Bert, uh,
consisting over 160 million sentences,
which is a lot of sentences.
Um, deeper transformer model than Bert.
Um, lots of transformer layers, double, uh,
max language modeling objective.
If that's what you're intending to research, then
that's obviously the best case.
'cause Roberta has a more robust, uh, MLM, um,
it has a much larger vocabulary than Bert
over a million words.
Um, and Roberta training has
sub word tokenization in general, uh, dynamic masking,
like I was saying before, and can take longer sequences up
to about 500 tokens, a little over 500 tokens, um, compared
to Bert who is much less.
Um, and just general pros
and cons, uh, Roberta
removes next sentence prediction.
Uh, significantly increases.
Oh, looks like there's a poll on
screen, uh, for you to take.
Now. Uh, we've got about 45 minutes left in the class,
so we always appreciate your feedback.
Um, and I promise right
after that, we're gonna get back into the code.
Um, I think probably in about 10, 15 minutes
after the next code session, uh,
we're gonna take just a five minute break
because that will put us at 30 minutes to go,
which is the hardest 30 minutes,
but we know, um, we're almost there.
Really appreciate everybody's feedback.
All right, closing the poll in 10 seconds.
Um, and then after this, also feel free to connect
with me on LinkedIn, um, and ask any questions.
Um, I think I'm the only tankas on there.
I think it's like me and like my dad.
So I'm the one that's not a photographer.
Um, always happy to, uh,
I think we've also got a career
coaching session on Wednesday.
I'm not exactly sure how to sign up for that.
Um, but I think you've been communicated, uh, how
to sign up for the career coaching session,
but always happy to talk about that stuff
and stoked to talk about data.
Um, speaking of which, let's talk about data.
Thank you for the feedback. Let's keep rolling.
Um, okay,
so we talked about the main thing,
Roberto versus Bert pre-training.
Objective sentence piece. I don't think we've talked. Yeah.
Okay. Sentence piece tokenization.
Roberta uses a sentence piece tokenize, which allows
for dynamic vocabulary and that adapts to training data.
Um, that's different than birch, uh,
which usually uses word piece,
tokenize sentence piece tokenize.
So at the sentence level, tokenizing instead of word level,
um, that is typically, um, advantageous for languages
and rich morphology.
Um, so like when more context is required, you usually have
to cast a wider net.
So look at sentence tokenization as opposed
to word tokenization.
Um, so Roberta handles that a little bit better.
Uh, learning rate schedules,
Roberta employees a more aggressive training setup
with larger batch size and a linear learning rate.
Um, and this may result in faster convergence,
so getting to an answer a little quicker.
Um, and improved performance in some cases.
Uh, for model architecture, both Bert
and Roberta are based on transformer architecture.
What are transformers?
That was what we talked about earlier in the lecture, um,
when we're talking about encoders and decoders.
So both Bert and Roberta are, um, uh, based on those models,
um, they normalization both used.
Um, so depending on the specific task
and desired model behavior, uh, bur
and Roberta, uh, differences may be relevant on whether
or not, um, NSP is used.
Next sentence prediction.
Um, and fine tuning, um, choice between bur
and Roberta when fine tuning is pretty
dependent on performance of the model.
On the downstream tasks.
After fine tuning, it's usually advisable to experiment
and evaluate both models on target tasks
to determine which one performs better.
Um, so when I am, uh, doing analyses,
I don't just run one thing because it's 100% the right case.
Um, sometimes Roberta performs better,
sometimes Bert performs better
and they're pretty computationally, um, trivial to run,
um, at the same time.
So when I'm trying to answer a research question,
I usually do just do all algorithms
and, um, if they are, uh, performing similarly,
I'll probably lean towards the one that does it faster.
Does that same, um, analysis faster, um, or more robust?
So fastest one, um,
that we're gonna talk about in a little bit is, Albert
most robust is Roberta,
and then Birch is the one that most people know, which
honestly is something valid as well.
Um, so all of those things are important to consider.
Alright, code demo, we're gonna do the code demo,
and then we're gonna take a five minute break
and we're gonna be happy and it's gonna be awesome.
Um, so here we have the code demo.
Um, let me just start.
All right, yeah, so this should be already run.
So again, unfortunately I can't run it live just
because these, uh, code books are ra rather large.
Um, so it would take all of the time we have remaining, uh,
just to run a couple of these, uh,
slides, like five minutes.
But we don't wanna watch, uh,
the corgis run across the screen for five minutes.
All right, uh, introduction.
Oh, actually, uh, let's zoom in.
Um, all right, that should match what we had
before, maybe a little bit more zoomed in.
Um, let me know in the chat if this is,
if we need to zoom in a little bit more.
Um, so Roberta, like we were talking about in the slides,
implementation of Bert with some key changes.
Um, and those changes include hyper parameterization, um,
lots of embedding tweaks, uses bite level, uh, BPE
as a tokenize, and that is a different pre-training scheme.
Um, Roberta is trained for longer sequences, so bigger, um,
capacity and number of iterations is increased, uh,
from a hundred K to 300 K and sometimes even 500 K as well.
Um, uses larger bite level vocab, um,
and has 50 K sub-board units instead of character level.
Uh, BPE, um, the size of 30 K and Bert.
Um, so all of its stock points into MLM, uh, none
of its stock points into, uh, NSP.
Um, Roberta doesn't use, uh, token type IDs
and we don't need to define tokens, which is pretty cool.
Um, only separate segments, uh,
with the separation or separation.
Um, in the token, um, larger mini batches,
oh, geez, sorry, uh, markdown,
uh, larger mini batches
and learning rates, uh, are used in Thea training.
Um, NSPs removed, like I was saying before.
But, um, let's get into the code.
Um, so this is connecting it to Google Drive.
If you have not used, um, the CoLab,
that's really the only negative I have with, uh, CoLab.
Um, it's a little bit difficult to, um,
manage your route directory.
So I usually just save, um, the code book locally, um,
in my Google Drive folder, and then have, um, an abso
or a, um, reference mapping, uh, for the actual path.
Um, and you can in, uh, Google find the location,
um, of each, uh, file by going to properties.
And that helped me out a lot.
Uh, so we install the Transformers torch,
um, install the accelerate package,
um, and then we clone this, uh,
repo, uh, dataset from the, um, get page here.
So tweet dataset.
Um, so here we are getting into the analysis,
defining the Roberta base model from Transformers.
We import the pipeline, um,
and we choose the model Roberta base.
And our token is also Roberta base.
Um, so this is the load here.
And after that we declare a function to, uh,
predict the masked token in the sentence.
Um, so our function here,
we're gonna predict the mass token.
We have the input model,
and then we have, uh, the input sentence.
Um, and then this is just going to be
for everything that we predict.
Um, we print the sequence with, uh, some formatting, um,
and then we print the, uh, confidence score.
Um, so here you see we have this mask
input send the, uh, mask back,
uh, calling that function with the Roberta model.
So we, we have the Roberta model input
into the predict mask token.
And then our goal is to predict what this is.
And see, we haven't really trained it on anything.
Um, we are just calling the pre-trained model
and we manually masking this.
Um, it looks like there's another poll.
Uh, I think we already answered this.
Looks like there's some slightly different questions.
Uh, we're gonna take about 15 seconds to answer this,
'cause I think we're running pretty short on time.
Oh, okay. Uh, thank you Benjamin.
Uh, so this one is for me.
Um, the last one was for the ta.
So really appreciate everybody's feedback.
All right, let's give it 10 more seconds.
All right, thanks everybody for the responses.
We've got about, uh, 30 minutes left in the class,
so we'll finish this code book
and then take five minutes, not 10 minutes.
Um, and then we will finish the last, I think,
15, 20 slides.
Um, okay, here we go.
So, predict the mask token, um, send the mask back.
Um, so Roberta is trying to figure out
what we're trying to say.
Send the pictures back, send the photos back,
send the emails back so we're
all kind of in the same region.
Um, and you can see here
it has confidence score with each one of these.
So Roberta is pretty sure that it'd send the pictures back,
but it also might be send the photos back.
So, um, all these three here are pretty tied.
Um, and what's interesting is those are all things
that humans would say, right?
Send the emails back, send the
pictures back, send the photos back.
It's pretty uncommon, uh, for somebody to say,
send the image back or send the letters
back, especially nowadays.
And there is a fairly significant confidence drop in those.
So that is really interesting
that it captures natural language sentiment
or natural language performance.
Um, so one thing that is important is while, uh,
Roberta models are updated, um,
and the pre-train models are continually trained,
it may not, um, have the most UpToDate information,
especially when talking about like, uh, culture
and, um, societal, um, leanings and things like that.
Uh, so when we're putting in e
or then when the input is, Elon Musk is the founder of x,
uh, when X is mask, um, Elon Musk is the founder
of Tesla, uh, SpaceX.
So we're pretty confident in that.
Um, and I'm, one thing
that we should consider is Elon
Musk is the founder of Twitter.
Um, while he's not the founder, I would expect this, uh,
confidence score to be a little bit higher
because he's the current CEO.
So this may not be the, um,
like we can tune this model to improve
that prediction a little bit better.
Um, especially because there is no Twitter anymore.
It's X, right? Um, okay, so configuring,
tokenizing training and saving the model.
Uh, so prep, or prep,
preparing the data set is what we're gonna do first.
So we build the, uh, token here, um, the BPE tokenize,
uh, and we have token on Roberta based token
or the model on Roberta base as well.
Um, and then here we are preparing the transformers,
um, based on this training text.
Um, and then from there we'll load some
libraries in a little bit.
But let's just get into some context quickly.
Uh, so what is the data collator and what does it do?
Data correlators are objects that will form a branch using
a list of data sets and elements as input.
Um, those elements are the same type as the elements
of the training dataset or ev eval dataset.
And to be able to build branches.
Data collators, um, may apply some processing
or padding, um, from, uh,
things like this data collator, uh, for language modeling.
And they also apply some random data augmentation like
masking, um, random masking specifically on
that formed branch.
Um, and here we're gonna use that function
for randomly masking 15% of the tokens.
For MLM tests, uh, parameters are, uh,
the token, and the token is typically used for,
uh, encoding the data.
Um, the MLM process, um,
or the MLM um, input is whether
or not to use mask language modeling.
If we set that to false, um, the labels
and the inputs, um, are ignored.
Um, otherwise the labels are, um, set to true
or not ignored, I should say.
Um, and for MLM probability, um, like I was saying
before, if we want to include
that in our model, then we set to true.
All right, so finally, um, importing
that final model data co, uh, data collator
for large language model, big functioning.
Um, so we declare it, we declare the tokenize
that we're using that we declared up above.
Um, we are using MLM, um,
and we have, uh,
15% masking randomly 15% of the tokens.
Um, so in a sentence of 100 words, 15
of those will be masked.
Oh, um, shout out from, uh, Reja
and, uh, Benjamin and a couple other people.
Um, really appreciate the feedback.
Um, always good to hear, um,
and stoked to contribute to the knowledge of new,
um, data science people and data engineers
and us other engineers or whoever you may be.
Um, okay, so difference between Roberta model base
and a Roberta model retrained.
Um, Roberta model base is a pretty generic model.
Um, and we have that pre-training step versus
that fine tuning to get Roberta a retrained model.
Um, so here we are training the model.
We have transformer
or from transformers, we're importing the trainer
and the training arguments, um, we're initializing here.
Training arguments are this function.
Um, I know when it gets to code, it's pretty difficult
to interpret all the time, but just like go line by line
and we will read it together.
Um, the output directory is where our model is going to go,
um, and whether
or not we're overriding our current, um, model,
which is kind of that learning process.
Um, and how many epics we're gonna train on.
Uh, one is just so that we kind
of reduce the computational load.
You can go higher and higher and higher.
Um, this is the batch side or batch size.
Also consider that for, um, computational load.
Um, and then this is seed.
So, uh, randomness, um, there's lots.
So seed in randomness is, it's actually really difficult
to get a truly random process, uh,
by generating numbers randomly.
You have to have, um, numbers
that are truly random.
And for that you have to set a seed.
There's an approved list of randomness, um,
which is hilarious to say,
but, um, that approved randomness will allow us
to make sure that our model is the most effective.
So seed selects one of those approved random lists.
Um, so seed one here.
Um, and then passing the model training arguments
to the data correlator, uh, the data set, uh,
to the trainer function and training the model.
Um, so here we take the training function,
we declare the model that we've discussed.
Uh, we have the training arguments,
and then we have the data collator and the data set.
Um, and then we train, uh, see,
this took about three minutes.
Um, so this is going to be a little bit, uh,
computationally expensive.
And this is a simplified model.
So, um, if you're training a more advanced model, just, uh,
remember to plan in advance.
Um, and then we're loading
that trained model, that retrained model.
Um, and now we're using again.
So here we have a lot of calls and a lot of outputs.
Um, what we're going to be looking at is
this right here, Roberta retrained.
Roberta retrained, Roberta base.
Um, so look at
these two differences.
Uh, first one is retrained, second one is base.
Um, I hate watching mask sports.
And the next one is the same. I hate watching mask sports.
This one is Roberta retrained. This one is Roberta Bass.
So let's look at the differences.
So Roberta retrained, um,
I hate watching fantasy sport.
I hate watching stupid sport college sport,
live sport, pro sport.
I hate watching fantasy sport.
So that's the same college sport, live sport,
professional sport, pro sport.
So the difference is, we can see here, uh,
stupid sport is not available in the base model.
Um, and college is a little bit higher in the base model.
Um, professional sport is also, um, duplicated here.
So pro sport, professional sport.
So this, um,
may be a little bit more applicable in our setting.
Um, so I hate watching fantasy sport. Um, stupid sport.
College sport may be more applicable for us
because we have tuned it that way.
Um, so we can see the confidence is lower
10% versus 24%.
Um, but in fine tuning, you will have
to take a little bit more ownership over the model
and how it predicts your things.
Um, so just make sure that, um,
when you are fitting algorithms, um,
just try different things when you're tuning it,
you're retraining it, um, to fit your purposes.
Um, and then here we can just see, uh, in the demo slides,
I'm gonna kind of gloss over these next
few 'cause it's about the same.
Um, I'm a male model fashion female, Russian young.
Um, this is the retrained.
And the next, I'm a male female,
professional fashion Russian.
So very similar. Um,
and then here we have a little bit lower, uh,
confidence for male.
Um, and then, uh, female is significantly lower on the list,
but about the same confidence level.
Um, so it is up to you
to determine, um, your cases.
Um, which one you would recommend retrain
or base model here.
Um, I think for this circumstance,
I'd probably recommend base model
because there is a higher confidence, um, on male model.
Um, and if that is what we're looking at, um, then
that is the model I'd recommend.
Usually when, um, we are in this state, uh,
where we have such a low difference, uh,
only four percentage points, um, I would probably
not consider those two different from each other.
Other, um, I do like in the base model,
how there's this big gap between the leading one
and the, uh, a second level
because that allows me to make a confident decision that,
uh, we are predicting, hello, I'm a male model
to be the number one, um,
return output value.
All right, let's get back to the lecture slides.
Oh, shoot, uh, five minute break.
So we are back at, uh,
1245, uh, PST.
Um, and I do want to take this break instead of just power
through because I really want to pay attention
to the last couple slides.
And at the end of four hours, we're all toast.
So just five minutes
and then we will power through the next few slides.
All right, let's get back, uh, rolling on Albert.
So Albert is a like version of Bert.
So Bert is that base model.
Um, and then we have reduced it in size,
but maintained the robustness of the analysis.
Um, so similar to Bert,
Albert uses self supervised learning
with mass language modeling and MLM, um,
and again, uh, NSP is not used in Albert.
Uh, Albert uses sentence order prediction instead.
Uh, SOP umbert consists
of just over a million parameters,
and Albert is significantly smaller.
We'll be, uh, looking at a really nice visual presenting the
difference between, uh, bird
and Albert in the next couple of slides.
So, um, it does a few different,
or it, um, simplifies a few different ways.
Cross layer parameter sharing, factored embedding, um,
and then inner sentence, uh, coherence prediction.
Um, so Albert first we're getting into cross
layer parameter sharing.
Um, so in cross layer parameter sharing,
um, it's an interesting method
for reducing the number of parameters.
In the Burt model, Burt consists of n number
of encoder layers, uh, usually a ton, um,
and sometimes it could be 12, sometimes more.
Uh, remember those different types
of encodings we talked about at the beginning
of the lecture, um, all shared where,
uh, we share all the parameters
and the sublayers of the first encoder
with all the sublayers of the other encoders
shared Feedforward network.
Um, and in this, we only share the parameters
of the feedforward network of the first layer encoder
with the Feedforward net network
of the other encoder layers.
So we're simplifying that.
Um, and also another option would be shared attention.
And in this layer, um, we only share the parameters
of multi-head attention, um, of the first encoder layer
with multi-head attention of the other encoder layers.
And then this is kind of just a, a visual description.
Um, so we can kind of see how Albert, uh,
potentially shortcuts some of those encoder steps to, um,
reduce model complexity.
Uh, we have multiple layers,
and if we share the weights of those multiple layers, um,
as opposed to, uh, have each individual weights replicated
for each of those layers, then the model size will decrease.
So we may have factor weights in multi-head attrition
that are duplicates of add and normalized
and, uh, fee forward, et cetera, et cetera.
So we remove those duplicates,
and that is how Albert is faster by the removing
of duplicate weights.
Um, so here's another option in Albert
or another way that it reduces complexity.
Uh, factorized embedding parameterization.
Um, in the Burt model,
its improvements like Excel net and Roberta.
Um, the input layer embedding
and the hidden layer embedding have the same size roughly.
Um, so remember that multi-layer visual
that we talked about earlier in the, uh, lecture, um,
both term, both in terms of modeling
and an application, um, that's pretty suboptimal.
Um, while it is effective,
in some cases it could be improved,
and that is improved in Albert.
Um, in this model, the two embedding matrices are separated
at the input level, and they only need to refine, uh,
the context independent learning.
Um, and the hidden level H requires some more
context dependent learning.
Um, and that leads to a pretty huge reduction in size,
um, up to about 80% with only a minor, uh,
per performance drop when compared to Bert.
So again, this is why I usually select Albert,
because, um,
it is significantly less computationally expensive, uh,
compared to Bert or Roberta.
So start with Albert, um,
unless you're explaining
something, and then start with the base.
Bert. Um, so
inter sentence co coherence prediction, uh, similar
to Bert Albert used the MLM mass language model in training.
Um, instead of using next sentence prediction,
we're using SOP.
Um, so sentence order prediction,
which we'll discuss here in a little bit.
Um, so it's a binary classification loss is what it uses.
Uh, remember loss, uh, function calculation.
Uh, it's kind of like the residuals of, um,
transformer um, models.
Um, so it uses that to predict whether two segments occur,
uh, consecutively, um, in original text.
Um, and this checks the loss for coherence as well as,
um, next sentence.
But SOP only looks for sentence coherence.
So SOP is only looking for sentence coherence, not, uh,
what the next sentence may be.
Um, so this is interesting here.
Burt Base has nine times as many parameters as Albert base.
Remember, there's different models sizes.
Um, so Burt Base has nine times
as many parameters as Albert.
Um, Burt large has 18 times as many parameters
as Albert large, so it's way bigger.
Um, so that's kind of the top line you use Albert
because it's much faster, faster.
Um, here if Burt large was used as a baseline,
Albert large is 1.7 times as likely,
or 1.7 times faster, uh, in iterating through the data.
Um, and while you may not care about the speed,
what the speed allows is, um,
potential preventing overflow errors
that could cause your analysis to just be crushed, um,
because the code will not, uh, compile.
All right? And Ekra is not used as frequently,
but we're gonna touch on it briefly.
Um, efficient learning and, um, sorry.
Electra is efficient learning
and a coder that classifies token replacements accurately.
Um, so it's known for language understanding
and some efficiency, um,
and it's best described.
Uh, in the next slide here you can see, um,
we change and identify what is the original
and what is replaced.
So what is masked?
Um, so we can see the generator,
which is typically a small MLM, um, the input value,
the mask, uh, the is masked,
and then chief is the original.
And then, uh, co, uh, the original here is cooked,
uh, which is masked.
Um, and then we can see here
the Electra model identifies what has been replaced, um,
that is much more computationally difficult
because not only do you have to identify what is, um,
the original word, you also have to identify, uh,
has that been replaced.
So, um, it, it is typically recommended over using Electra,
um, to fine tune Burt, uh, for a specific task, uh,
like we have been doing in a couple of the, uh, code demos.
Um, so during that fine tuning, we can adjust the weights
of the model, um, by using the pre-train model along
with additional classification layers.
Um, we can update only the weights
of the classification layer
and not the pre-trained Burt model.
Um, and when we do this, it becomes
very similar using the pre-trained model as the,
the feature extractor.
And then here's some more examples about fine tuning Bert
for text classification.
Um, sentiment analysis is really important.
Um, I do sentiment analysis a ton in my work.
Um, so looking at the sentence I love
Paris, is that positive?
Is that negative sentiment?
Um, so once we tokenize it, um, we can identify, uh,
the key kernel, um, token of love, making
that a positive indication.
Um, so that, um, text classification is something
that we can do with, um, Burt really well.
Um, and then here, fine tuning,
this is just another way to fine tune.
Um, we have that same sentence. Uh, I love Paris.
We pass it to our naive vanilla pre-trained Bert.
Um, and then we have the Bert output,
um, that we now pass to, um,
more customized, uh,
or more fine tuning functions like the soft
max and the Feedforward network.
And from that, we can get, we're pretty sure 90% sure
that this is positive sentiment
and there's a chance 10% chance that it's negative.
Um, and we would be correct.
We as humans know, love is usually positive usually.
And then fine tuning for question answering.
Um, so previously we had classification,
now we have question answering.
So, uh, Bert can do both depending on what function you use.
Um, and for question answering, um,
just reiterating what we previously displayed in a couple
of different code demos.
Um, we have the pre-training, Burt
over on the left hand side here.
Um, and this provides some decent output, um,
which we can then take
and potentially improve in the fine tuning step.
So if our goal is to, um,
adapt the pre-trained birched
for a specific question answering tasks, um,
and our dataset might be like a, a labeled dataset, uh,
consisting of question answer pairs.
Um, each pair usually includes something like a,
a context passage or a question about the passage
and then the corresponding answer.
So that's our data set.
Um, so what our tokenization would be is the question
and the answer and the context passage.
Those are all tokenized using the same
sub word tokenization.
Um, and from that input, we then,
um, fine tune, um, given
packages, uh,
or passages like Bert is a
powerful natural language processing model.
We can dynamically mask those things, um,
and using all of the other tools
in our now filled tool belts to help fine tune, um,
our answers, um, and improve, uh, our output.
Um, so fine tuning,
this is exactly what we saw in the code demo
where we have our question, what is an immune system?
And we have our output paragraph, um,
the immune system is,
and then you can see the answer right here.
So we can pass many, many, many, many
of these question paragraph pairs like we have in our
example dataset, um, to fine tune this model.
'cause, um, having more trainings, data sets,
especially like, um, if you are training
or if you are fine tuning a model for the context of, uh,
the healthcare analytics,
you may pass this question paragraph pair
as an additional context for the model here.
Um, so that would help fine tune.
Um, and then like we were saying
before, this is another similar
example with a different question.
We have what system, uh, the immune system tissue, so
that question and that answer
that we saw on the previous slide.
And then we have the pre-trained Bert.
And then we can apply things like, um, multiple, uh,
training question paragraph sets
or, uh, running it through a dot product, uh,
and soft, uh, max transformations.
Um, and then we have the probabilities
of the start and end word.
And then, um, that's pretty much what we've got today.
Um, oh wow, 45 seconds left.
Let's get through the brain teaser section.
Um, so we can have, um, four Bert, some general
how to fine tune the model, um, and think about
after this class, how can we fine tune the model to generate
the answer word by word.
Um, yes or no.
Um, and just consider that in your day
to day going forward.
Um, I think you'll get these slides afterwards
so we can go through the summary.
Um, and there's a couple of links to demos, um,
and also some, uh, references and literature after that.
Um, so again, feel free to sign up to the, um,
uh, career coaching.
Feel free to add me on LinkedIn, um, and stay connected.
Um, and yeah, I'm always happy to teach
and discuss, um, natural language processing
or statistical concepts or anything like that.
Um, so thank you everybody for your patience.
Um, thank you to the TA
for answering a ton of great questions.
Um, and I'll stick around to help answer in the chat
as well if there's any last minute questions.